>> Ladies and gentlemen, please
welcome Satya Nadella.
>> Good morning, everyone,
and welcome to Build 2015.
It's exciting to be here at
Build and in San Francisco.
In fact, I was just recounting, I've been
at every developer conference of ours
since 1991, in fact the very first one as
a third-party developer and after that as
an employee at Microsoft, and
it's just awesome to be here.
I know we have a fantastic
show lined up for you.
We have lots of things to talk about
and today's keynote but for the rest of the
conference, lots of things to show you,
lots of announcements, many, many new
things that I think are going to be very
exciting in terms of what you will make of
them on day one and what you will
do on day two and thereafter.
For me, in some sense, this conference
is all about celebrating and challenging
the creativity, the ingenuity that you all
bring to build new and great things on top
of platform innovations that we make
available to you.
And that phenomenon is not new.
In fact, it goes back to the
very origin of our company.
Microsoft was founded by two developers
who had a bold ambition to empower other
developers to build new and great things.
In fact, the tweet you see on the screen
is the tweet from Paul Allen on our 40th anniversary.
We turned 40 in April, and these are the
first lines of code that Bill and Paul wrote.
It turns out Bill wrote the runtime and
Paul wrote everything else and there's
this nice comment about we should put
better errors, so it started at the very beginning.
And when you look at it, that ethos, a
lot has changed in the 40 years since.
A lot of technologies have come,
a lot of technologies have gone.
In fact, the very first basic interpreter
was written on a PDP 10 with an 8080
emulator that was built so that you could
target the Altair Microcomputer.
And in the 40 years, a lot of devices have
come and gone, a lot of technologies
have come and gone, as they should.
But what has remained constant is that
ethos, that core that we are a developer
company and a platform company first.
It is our mission to empower every person
and organization on the planet to achieve more.
And when we talk about empowering every
person, it starts by empowering every
developer on the planet.
What you will hear us talk about in
this conference and even in this morning's
keynote is perhaps the broadest lens through
which we've viewed developers,
development, and platforms.
We're going to want developers from
student developers to startups to
enterprise developers to ISVs, to people
writing mobile apps to people venturing
into virtual reality and mixed reality,
all of these developers to come explore
and take advantage of the platform
innovation that you will see this morning
and throughout this conference.
We also want to make sure that
we build bridges for you.
We want you to be able to bring your
skills, your technology choices, your languages
to our platforms and then build
from there new and great things.
That concept or that approach is something
that's going to be deeply ingrained in
everything we do across all of our platforms.
Over the last year, I've had a chance to
talk to many developers throughout the world.
I met a couple of student developers,
student developers who won the Imagine Cup
last year, from Australia.
They built this fantastic mobile app that
made it possible for you to be able to
detect anemia in children by just using
a simple app and taking a selfie.
And that app now is changing lives in
Africa and other developing parts of the world.
I had a chance to meet a middle-schooler
in the Bronx, a girl who built a robot
that could walk the stairs.
And in her eyes, I could see that that
was just the very beginning
of what she's going to do.
I had a chance to meet some enterprise
developers in Germany working in an
industrial equipment manufacturer,
and they were fundamentally changing,
transforming their business to becoming
a software company, a SaaS company.
So I thought that it's perhaps appropriate
to kick off Build by talking
to one such developer.
In fact, he's a musician, who had a dream
-- and he calls himself an accidental developer.
But who had a dream to change
how music is composed.
Please help me welcome David William Hearn.
Hi, David.
>> Hi.
>> Great seeing you >>
Great to be here.
>> Thanks for coming up.
Why don't you tell us a little bit about
your dream, your journey so far.
>> Absolutely.
So music notation is probably something
that a lot of you in this room haven't
thought about before, but it really is the
written language of music.
It's almost like a coding language of
music, actually.
In fact, it has some similarities with code.
You can even write in C# or F#.
>> F#'s probably better for that.
>> Maybe.
Up until now, there's been two main ways
that you can really write music,
traditionally, using pen and paper, which
is very creative, maybe not that
convenient sometimes, or the digital way,
which is very laborious to input but very
convenient once it's in that form.
So I really wanted to make something where
you could take the creativity and the
convenience and smash them together
and create this brand-new way of writing music.
>> Amazing.
Do you want to show us what
you built? >> Absolutely.
Let's have a look.
So StaffPad is handwriting recognition
for music notation.
I've actually been working on a piece for
the last few weeks, a piece for string
quartet and piano, and as you can see, I
can use touch to interact with the score.
You can see we've got a big score here.
This is no nursery rhyme, and let's
scroll to the end, and we've got
a couple of bars left to do.
So I figured we could finish it up onstage.
>> For sure.
You're talking to a music
illiterate, but go ahead.
>> Well, I don't know how to run a big company.
Okay, let's just take the pen and I'm
going to start writing in the bar.
It's very natural.
The idea behind the app was that if you
could write music, you should
be able to -- hey.
If you can write music, you should be
able to know how to use the app.
You don't need to really learn too much.
It's very intuitive.
As I move into the next bar, the music
notation is recognized and turned into
typeset notation.
>> That's very cool.
>> Thank you.
>> I'm going to turn these off.
Let's get rid of those.
Fantastic.
This is actually interactive notation
now, so I can add staccato dots, and maybe
I should slur some of these, too.
Do you think? Slur means play
it like you're drunk.
I'm going to get in so much trouble for that.
Using touch, I can double-tap the bar,
select the bar and just pull this out,
and this is the great thing about Surface and Windows.
It was really the only platform that we
could do this for, because it really
understands the difference between my fingers
and the pen, and that's really key
to making this intuitive and natural.
I'm just going to take this last beat.
I'm going to erase that using the pen eraser,
and I'm going to draw in a string
run here and pull that up, and you can see
there we've got a nice flash string run up
to the top.
So let me just do one last thing,
double tap, copy this down.
>> That's cool.
>> We don't want that.
Okay, and now we can play this back.
And there you go.
>> Awesome, awesome, awesome.
What's been the reaction? I know
that this has been out for a few
months, is it now? >> No, just
a few weeks, and the reaction
has already been absolutely incredible,
breathtaking, really.
We've heard from people all over the world.
We heard from an 11-year-old composer
who's writing her second opera on the app
-- not her first, her second.
And a 91-year-old who's fallen back
in love with writing music again.
It's really been -- the students are using
it in the classroom, and it's really just
an incredible reaction.
It's been breathtaking.
>> Awesome.
Thank you so much, David.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
>> That's what's most striking about
today's developers and all of you,
which is one person or a small group of people
with a dream and a passion can have such
huge impact, by taking advantage
of these platform technologies.
Who would have thought that music composition
can be changed with touch and ink?
And that's what we live for as a platform company.
We want to be able to take inspiration
from the apps you build to drive platform innovation.
So today's keynote is about three major
platform transformations and shifts.
We want to talk about, first, our cloud platform.
We aspire to build an intelligent cloud
back end for the world's applications
running on all devices.
We want to have the capability to
manage infrastructure spanning datacenters,
so that means storage compute in the network
that's not just about a datacenter as
a computer, but all of the datacenters
coming together in support of these
intelligent applications.
We want to have rich application services,
in particular data services, such as
machine learning and democratize the access
to those capabilities so that every
developer on every platform
can build intelligent apps.
Second, we want to talk about Office as a platform.
We want to move far beyond individual applications
and their APIs to building
a rich graph of data as a platform.
We want you to be able to consume that
graph, extend that graph, and we'll talk
a lot about that.
And lastly, we want to talk about Windows.
Windows 10 represents a new generation of
Windows built for an era of more
personal computing, from Raspberry Pi to the
holographic computer, where the mobility
of the experience is what matters, not the
mobility of the device.
So to kick things off, let me have Scott
Guthrie come up on stage and talk about
our cloud platform.
Thank you very much.
>> Thank you.
Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Build.
Satya just talked about our three
core ambitions as a company.
I'm now going to continue the conversation
and talk about the work we're
doing to build the intelligent cloud.
This is a broad ambition that spans a
wide range of cloud services at Microsoft,
including Office 365 and Dynamics.
Today, though, I'm going to talk about the
work we're doing to power this ambition
using Azure.
Azure is Microsoft's cloud computing
platform, and it enables you to move
faster and do more.
Azure is a hyper-scale cloud platform,
and over the last several years, we've built
out Azure to run all over the world.
The circles on this map indicate Azure
regions, which are made of clusters of
datacenters where you can run deploy your code.
Today, we have 19 unique Azure
regions open for business.
That's more locations and countries than
both AWS and the Google Cloud combined.
This enables you to run your applications
closer to your customers and employees
than ever before and compete in
even more geographic markets.
We continue to invest billions of dollars
each year building new infrastructure,
and our cloud platform now manages
more than 1 million servers.
This enables you to build apps without
having to worry about your cloud
platform's capacity, and it enables you
scale your solutions to any size.
Azure offers the choice and flexibility
of a full-spectrum cloud.
It enables you to build apps that scale
from personal projects up to global-scale applications.
You can start from scratch for new greenfield
apps or you can easily leverage
your existing investments and skills.
It's open and supports the ability to
target multiple devices, use multiple
operating systems, programming languages,
frameworks, data services and tools.
We allow you to put all your app in Azure
or support hybrid deployments that span on
premises or other clouds.
You can choose to use Azure just
for infrastructure and just use it for base
compute storage and networking, but you
can also take advantage of a coherent set
of highly engineered services to
build your apps even faster.
And our cloud platform and tools combination
together deliver unmatched
productivity and enable you to move faster
and be even more successful.
It's been a busy 12 months for the Azure
team since our last Build Conference
a year ago.
We delivered more than 500 new Azure
services and features in that time
and have greatly expanded the footprint
and capabilities of what Azure delivers.
And what we're seeing is as we've expanded
our feature set and as we've
expanded or footprint around the world,
we're seeing the usage of Azure
continue to rapidly grow.
We have more than 90,000 new Azure
customer subscriptions now being created
every month.
And these customers are creating some
really amazing applications.
More than 1.4 million SQL databases are
now being used by applications hosted
inside Azure.
We have more than 50 trillion objects
now stored in the Azure Storage system,
425 million users in our Azure Active
Directory system, 3 million developers
registered with Visual Studio Online services,
which are our online suite of
developer SaaS offerings.
And we're seeing the growth and traction
of Azure happen not just in the enterprise
and business user space, but more than 40%
of our Azure revenue and usage now
comes actually from startups and from ISVs.
Behind these large momentum numbers are
some truly amazing customer stories.
This slide contains some logos of just a
few of the companies doing great things in Azure.
And throughout today's keynote, you're going
to hear me talk more about some of
the specific stories and some of the
reasons why they're using Azure.
One of the things we know is that a cloud
platform must offer the flexibility of choice.
Azure enables you to use the best of the
Windows ecosystem and best of the Linux
ecosystem together.
Azure enables you to easily reuse the skills
you already have regardless of the
programming languages you use.
And we allow you to take advantage of
both core infrastructure capabilities
and higher-level platform services.
And Microsoft's unique and only hyper-scale
cloud provider that architects
those higher-level services and program
model capabilities to run in multiple
environments, including both on premises
datacenters that you already have, as well
as other clouds besides our own.
From the beginning with Azure, we've embraced
open source in a very deep way,
and over this past year in particular
we've taken a number of significant steps
to use open source even more broadly.
Last year, we announced our plans to
deeply embrace Docker and the Docker
ecosystem with both Azure and Windows Server
and make containers of fundamental
part of our application platform.
We've also open sourced core .NET
runtime technology and announced our plans to
support it on multiple platforms, as well
as obviously make it first class when
running within containers.
And this combination is really powerful
and enables even more developer
flexibility and choice.
What I'd like to do to kick things off
is actually invite Ben Golub and Mark
Russinovich on stage here to talk about
this work and show off a pretty cool demo
of them in action.
So here's Ben.
>> Thank you, Scott.
So for those of you who are not aware, Docker
has just celebrated its second birthday.
And so frankly, we're used to thinking of
Docker kind of like a human two-year-old.
It occasionally stumbles.
It occasionally spits up and keeps those
of us who are closest to it up at night.
And so sort of a surprising to
be up here on stage at Build.
In fact, I like to talk about the five
big surprises that we've had in working
with Microsoft that all in many ways relate
to this notion of how we can take
openness and portability and flexibility
and use it to empower developers.
Now, if you're not familiar with Docker,
it was started two years ago by Solomon
Hykes, who felt that developers fundamentally
are spending far too much of
their time doing rework, worrying
about dependencies, worrying about servers,
instead of just building awesome apps.
And the initial innovation was, let's
make possible to take any application
and its dependencies, package them up in
the digital equivalent of a shipping
container, and enable any application
that's Dockerized to interact well with
any other Dockerized application
and run on any server.
Now, last October, when we went up to meet
with Microsoft we were proud of the fact
that we'd gotten that working for Linux.
So you could take any Linux application,
Dockerize it, and run it on any Linux server.
And quite frankly, we thought we'd leave
Redmond with an agreement to make Docker
for Linux run well on Hyper-V
or run well in Azure.
But then we had the first of those big
five surprises, and the first surprise was
that we were not only going to
work on Docker for Linux.
We were going to work on Docker for Windows.
And so we're going to enable the 4 million
Docker Linux developers to join all of the
millions of Windows developers and make it
possible using standard Docker, using open
source, to take any Windows application,
Dockerize it and run it on any server.
The second great surprise that we had
was this was not only about code.
It was also about content and collaboration.
Now, if you're familiar with Docker, you
know we have a service called Docker Hub
that has about 120,000 Dockerized apps.
Microsoft has not only integrated Docker
Hub into all of its developer platforms,
but it is contributing actively to Docker
Hub, not just Dockerized Windows
components, but all of these great,
new open-source .NET and .NET for Linux
components, delivered again, as Docker
containers through the hub.
The third great surprise that we had was
that Microsoft embraced the notion of what
you need to do to make multi-container
apps work.
And they embraced the notion that if you
want to make multi-container apps truly
portable, you have to be open about
how you do orchestration, as well.
And so we're so thrilled that Microsoft
has embraced Docker's Open Orchestration
Initiatives, Compose, Machine and Swarm.
Fourth great surprise, and yes, yes, there's
more, if you combine those three
things, you're not only going to be able
to make great multi-container Windows
applications or great multi-container
Windows applications, you'll be able to
mix and match Windows containers and Linux
containers, which means you'll be able to
use a Linux back end and a Windows front
end or vice versa, basically, choose the
best damn tools for the best damn application
that you want to build and run
it on any server.
And the fifth and perhaps greatest surprise
that we've had in working with
Microsoft is that this has happened quickly,
and everything that I've spoken
about is either live or working
well in the lab right now.
And so without further ado, I'd like to
bring Mark Russinovich, CTO of Azure
onboard, to show you what happens when
you combine these great platforms together
and again, empower developers.
Thank you.
Thanks, and Mark, I love the shirt.
>> Thank you.
It's a great shirt.
Good morning, everybody.
All right, so what I've got right in
front of you here is an ASP.NET 5
application, Fabrikam.
It's an e-commerce site.
It's kind of a standard site, and I'm going
to be doing some dev test on it.
The first thing I'd like to do is deploy
it to a Docker container running in
a Windows Server machine.
On this dev test box, I've got a virtual
machine running Windows Server with Docker
container support, and I'm going to take
a look at the containers that I've already
got running in that virtual machine
by executing the Docker PS command,
which lists the active containers.
You can see that I've got two containers active.
One is a Minecraft server, and the other
one is a Node.js application, which shows
that Docker containers on Windows support
many different runtimes and languages that
you might be using.
Now, what I'm going to do is package up
the Fabrikam application so that I can
also deploy it into a container, and I'm
going to use several Docker commands here,
one called Docker Build, which
will package it up.
I'm going to tag the image that's produced
with the name Fabrikam, so that
it's easy to remember, and then
go ahead and package that.
And this is going to be executing a series
of steps, which take that ASP.NET 5
application, package it up in a Dockerized image.
And the next step is to run that container
with that image, so I'll type
Docker Run -it to make it interactive,
and you'll see why I'm doing this in a second.
Forgot the Docker command.
Docker Run and Fabrikam.
Now, the reason that I've had it be
interactive is so that we can print out
the IP address, so I can see the IP
address of the website that's going to
launch that Fabrikam application.
If I go back and do a Docker PS at this
point, you'll see that that Fabrikam image
has been launched into a container here.
And one of the really fun parts about using
the Docker client is that if you
don't specify a name for your container,
it comes up with a random one, so let's go
see what names it's come up with.
It called this one tender_elio,
and look at that.
That's -- what are the odds of
that coming up like that?
So let's go take a look at that website
now, which is going to be active.
I'll launch IE.
The IP address is 10.50.0.122, and we're
hitting 10.50.1.002, and there we go,
.NET running in a Windows Server
container, executed with Docker.
But I'm showing you a lot of technologies
here some of you might not be familiar
with, so just a quick raise of hands,
how many people have heard of Linux?
Okay, for those people that are watching
online, about a third of the audience
raised their hands.
I'm just kidding.
Everybody raised their hands, of course,
but what I'm going to show you is Scott
mentioned that we've got .NET support on
Linux, and we have integrated it
with Docker containers, as well.
So here, I've got the same exact application,
and this time, I'm going to
SSH into a Linux virtual machine
and run the Docker PS command.
You can see I've got no containers
running in that virtual machine.
Instead of using Docker run to deploy it,
I'm going to deploy it right from Visual
Studio, using the publish command.
Right here, I've configured it to launch
to that Docker host.
Here's the IP address of that host.
When I type publish and press publish
here, it's going to package it up
and execute the same Docker client commands to
deploy that Fabrikam application onto Linux.
If I go back and type Docker PS again,
you'll see there's Fabrikam latest,
and there's the name prickly_wozniak.
Always fun to look at the names of the
Docker containers it creates.
Let's go see if that website's come up,
and sure enough, there it is, and you can
see that that's the same IP address as the
SSH command, so I'm looking at the Docker
container running on that virtual machine.
But now there's more.
I'm doing dev test of this Fabrikam
application, and I'd like to continue to
use Visual Studio to do that, and I can
now with integration of container
debugging into Visual Studio.
So I'm going to go to Server Explorer,
go to virtual machines.
There's the Docker VM, and there's
the prickly_wozniak container.
I attach the debugger and just as a normal
Visual Studio debugging experience,
I've got the libraries loaded here.
And you can see, sure enough, there's the
core CLR for Linux underneath this application
that I've just attached to.
And now I want to set a breakpoint here
on the function that I'm debugging.
I go back to the website, hit refresh,
and I'm at the breakpoint, debugging .NET
in Linux, deployed into a Docker container.
Thank you very much.
>> Thanks, Mark.
So we've been developing the cross-platform
version of the .NET Core
runtime in the open on GitHub the last
several months, and I'm excited today to
announce that we're also releasing now
a preview edition of the runtime in
precompiled binary format that you
can download and start using for Windows,
for Linux, as well as for Mac.
Now, it's an incredibly exciting
time in the world today.
Disruption is changing the economy in
a fundamental way, not just in technology
but in traditional service industries, as well.
Who would have predicted that both the taxi
and the hospitality business would
have been turned upside down five years
ago, yet innovative companies like Uber
and Airbnb are doing just that.
Every organization is looking for ways
to engage customers better, empower their
employees more and ultimately transform
the value they deliver.
And developers and the applications
and solutions they build play an absolutely
integral role in enabling this.
In fact, it's increasingly digital apps
and technology that enable businesses to
delight their customers and differentiate
from one another, and it's never been
a better time I think right now to be a developer.
Azure enables you to embrace
this transformation and make you and your teams
even more successful.
With Azure, we deliver a rich set
of higher-level services that provide fully
engineered solutions that enable you
to move faster and achieve more.
And the combination of our cloud platform
and tools really delivers unparalleled
developer productivity as you do this.
3M is a customer who I think provides
an excellent example of what Azure
productivity can really deliver.
3M is one of the largest companies in the world.
They have 88,000 employees and literally
deliver tens of thousands of products,
and 3M is using Azure to build the back ends
for many of these products now, and they
love the agility that Azure provides them
to move quickly and deliver even more value.
And one of the initial projects they hosted
on Azure was an internal mobile app
that they wanted to provide to their sales
force to sell a new offering that they had
just actually come out with.
And a small development team that actually
never used Azure before signed up on
a Friday and basically spent the weekend
building the app, and by the end of
the weekend had a fully production-ready
version deployed on Azure, ready to roll
out to their sales force on Monday.
And this ability to quickly create
robust, enterprise-ready applications with
super-fast development cycles has really
provided 3M with incredible business
agility and helps them move even faster
as an overall organization.
And one of the great productivity solutions
Azure delivers is our Azure App Service.
This is a really powerful offering that
we released just last month and provides
a suite of capabilities that enable you to
quickly build and scale both web and
mobile applications anywhere in the world.
App Service allows you to write back-end
code logic using .NET, Java, Node.js,
PHP and Python.
You can easily enable continuous integration
workflows to it from online
source repositories, like Visual Studio
Online, GitHub and Bitbucket, and that
enables it so that every time a developer
checks in code into one of those services,
Azure can automatically build it, test it,
deploy it to a private production slot,
and if everything's looking good,
then basically turn it on to production and do
full monitoring and analytics on top of it.
Using Azure's built-in auto-scale capability,
you can set up rules so that
once you deploy the application,
your application can automatically scale up
based on incoming traffic.
In fact, if you get a massive influx of
traffic, you can basically spin up a huge
number of instances and handle
basically any amount of load.
And when your traffic drops, Azure
can basically automatically shut down those
resources to help you save money and
pay only for what you actually need.
A couple cool features we've added
recently to the Azure App Service
is enterprise connectivity, and this allows
you the ability to set up a virtual
private network that allows you to connect
back to an on-premise enterprise network
and access apps and data that you wish
to make available in the cloud.
This makes it really easy to integrate
with existing enterprise solutions you
already have, and Azure App Service also
now provides support for easily
integrating data and functionality from
popular SaaS solutions like Office 365,
Dynamics and Salesforce.
And you can use the logic app's
functionality within App Service to
create long-running workflows to automate
business processes.
What I'd like to do is invite Scott Hanselman
here onstage to show off our
Azure App Service and what
you can build with it.
>> Hi, friends.
We're really excited about the maker movement
and things like Raspberry Pis
and 3D printers.
You really should pick up on of these.
These are great.
And one of the applications that we've
brought here, the Fabrikam application,
is MakerSpace and they sell things like
Printrbot 3D printers and Netduino Wi-Fis
and things like that, but they also offer
a service where I can go and upload a 3D print.
I've got a 3D object here in 3D Builder
that you can go and get up on the Windows
Store, so I'm going to upload him into
this application that is running in Azure
App Service, and we bring him
up and then hit upload.
This modern application -- there you go.
You've actually got a little JavaScript
three.js there showing me the model.
It's going to tell me where I can pick it
up and when, and this is now going
to go through a process.
It's talking to a back end order service,
the one that we saw, and let's switch over
into Visual Studio and see how we built that.
Now, this is that ASP.NET 5 application,
using the .NET Core CLR and using modern
techniques, that is talking to the back end.
This order details back end is running
within the context of Azure, and we're
using HTML5, CSS3, all the kinds of modern
things that you'd expect, and we're
actually bringing in Bower and NPM inside
of Visual Studio.
And because I'm a web developer, I want to
use my web development skills to make
other applications, so we also have the
back end for the administrator, so when
someone at the store gets that 3D print,
we can click on the order.
They've got access to that print, so
they're using this application on
a Surface to talk to the same order
API that the website does.
We've got built into Visual Studio the
tools for Apache Cordova that are also
using HTML and JavaScript, and we're reusing
some of that JavaScript, as well.
And I can go and generate mobile applications.
I could certainly use C++ or tools like Xamarin.
In this case, tools for Apache Cordova
have allowed me to create a mobile app so
I can go and make purchases from this
store and also check on my order.
You maybe have seen the Windows emulator
that runs on Hyper-V that comes with
Visual Studio, but you may not be familiar
with the Android emulator.
This is an Android emulator that
comes with Visual Studio.
You have this, and I can go and check on
my order from that Android emulator
running under Hyper-V at full speed, all
part of the Apache Cordova tools that are
built in here.
It also includes debugging and a really
amazing experience for people making
mobile applications on any platform.
Let's switch over to Visual Studio Online
and see how we're managing this code.
Now, in this case, our team is working on
a Git repository that's running
in Visual Studio Online.
You can see John Galloway is
making some changes here.
But not only are we doing source control
within VSO, but we're also managing our
backlog, so we can keep track of what's
working and what's not working in this
Kanban board.
We've got full support for work items.
But more interestingly to me is that workflow
that the team is going through.
We've got the build running in Visual
Studio Online, as well, so this ASP.NET 5
.NET Core CLR application is building
in VSO and then deploying out to the
applications in Azure App Service automatically.
Now, if I switch over to Azure, I can see
that application in the API host here,
and when I move that into production, we
can click within Azure itself and see the
deployments here, as well.
So I can see a deployment that John put
out on Sunday, click on that, and that
integration with Visual Studio Online, I
can see his commits, whether that build succeeded.
So I check into Git, Visual Studio Online,
it runs the build, runs the tests, makes
sure that everything is okay, sends it out
into Azure.
Once it's in Azure, in production, I can
also scale it.
I can automatically scale it.
Coming here on scale by, I can set the number
of instances and a target range of
the CPU.
So if the CPU goes above a certain amount,
the application will scale, so I've got
the full life cycle from Visual Studio all
up through production, and now this
application in production scaling,
I'm going to want to get insights
into what's going on.
You would expect to have great web insights.
We've got application insights showing us
all sorts of details.
We have dependency tracking, all the way
down to a single line of code.
So from Visual Studio and Azure, you've
got the best DevOps that allow teams to
create both web and mobile apps, but with
our recent integration of Hockey app,
I've got the same deep insights for mobile applications.
So insight integrated into Azure, you can
see here the mobile app, crashes,
events, sessions by country.
I can go all the way down to a single line
of code, and here's actually the iOS
version of this application.
And I can go and see specifically what
worked and what didn't, down to an exact
line in this case of Swift code.
So it's a 360-degree view of any platform
from the highest level all the way down to
the lowest level, to a single line of code.
So this is a lot to take in.
Let's step back for a second and get an
understanding about how this fits in.
We've got web apps.
We've got mobile applications.
Those are talking to APIs in the back end.
When I submitted my order, it went to
this order API written in ASP.NET 5
and the Core CLR.
Those API apps can be written by me, or
they can be written by a third party or
brought in from our marketplace.
But a really interesting thing is this
concept of logic applications,
because there's business processes, like
when that order gets completed, I want to get
notified as a customer about that.
So let's take a look at what a
logic application looks like.
So let me switch over.
Here we go.
So this is an application here where we've
got individual API applications.
The SQL Connector is going to be looking
at the data for the orders, and then it
flows through this workflow from one API
up to another, using a technology called
Swagger, where that metadata is going
through the system into Salesforce,
and then in this case, we're
posting a message to Slack.
I can bring in that order API that we
created in ASP.NET and then get
the details for that order.
You see that that actually got populated,
using that Swagger details, and then it
knows about previous things within this workflow.
This is a reliable, durable workflow in
the cloud, and now I can click on Twilio
and bring in the Twilio connector and then
send a message to let me know when this
order is completed.
So here I can access any aspects of what
is flowing through the system -- in this
case, I'll look at the phone number,
and we will have the from number, the to
number, and then under text here,
we're going to have hi person, Salesforce,
first name, your order is ready.
This is the kind of common business process
that you don't necessarily want to
write in code, because it changes a lot,
and this is all happening in the cloud in
this business orchestration service called
Logic Apps.
And you can integrate this with any
existing application running on any language,
not just .NET, Node, Python.
Anything that can create a Swagger
application can do this.
Now, I think this is pretty amazing, but I
feel like perhaps I haven't sufficiently
blown your mind, and I promised a number
of people that I would do that.
So let's take a moment and then switch
over to our Macintosh here.
Now, on this Mac, you can see that I
can load up Visual Studio Online.
I can manage my code and write
my cross-platform .NET applications.
And I can do that using any one of the
many editors that one would use on a Mac,
like Emacs, Sublime and things like that,
but inevitably, I find myself going into
Spotlight on a Mac and just wishing that
there was a member of the Visual Studio
family that I could somehow
run, and now there is.
I'm really, really happy to announce
that Visual Studio Code -- this is
a code-optimized development tool that
runs natively on Windows, Mac and Linux.
It supports dozens of languages
out of the box.
It's a great application for all kinds of
things that you're going to do that are
code focused.
But it's not just a simple editor.
It has deep insights into what's going on.
This is the same Fabrikam order details application.
Here is a code peek.
I can see the references.
I'll go and go into order details.
From here, I can hover over individual
objects, get info about them and help,
and I get real IntelliSense, not just autocomplete.
In this case, powered by the open-source
tools of Roslyn and OmniSharp.
So this is pretty freakin' amazing.
I can also do things like this.
We'll bring in a little refactoring here,
make a change, save this, and I've got Git
and difs, and I can push it to Visual
Studio Online, where it will then run
through the process, be built, tested,
deployed and scaled to Azure, which
is pretty fantastic.
Visual Studio Code, this is still not
really blowing my mind.
I feel I could do even better.
So why don't we take a moment and switch
over to Ubuntu?
So now, I'm in my application.
In this case, I'm using a Mono
application, and big thanks to the folks
at Mono who helped us with Mono 4.01 that
this demo is running on.
I can now click on debug, launch an
interactive debugging session.
So now I'm on Ubuntu in a .NET app,
doing a debug session.
I've got local variables.
I've got a call stack.
I've got breakpoints, all in this great,
lightweight code editor, Visual Studio Code.
This I think makes the point that Visual
Studio is now a family of tools for every
developer, and Azure is the cloud
back end for everyone.
And I just got a text message on my band
that my 3D print is being delivered.
Oh, how nice.
That's great.
Now my Scott action figure has a friend.
Thank you, sir.
>> Well, thanks, Scott.
That was kind of a great example of the
type of end-to-end productivity that the
combination of Azure and our Visual
Studio family now provides.
You can see, as Scott mentioned, really
a 360-degree view from coding to deployment
to testing to source control management to
running and scaling your application.
It does it all.
You also from the chairs saw our newest
edition to the Visual Studio family,
which is Visual Studio Code
Visual Studio Code is a code-optimized
editing environment.
It's small, fast and provides both code
IntelliSense and debugging support, and as
you saw, it has full integration for Git.
And one of the things -- it can be used
on Windows, on Mac, as well as Linux
development machines, and I'm really excited
to announce that we're going to be
making it available for free.
And even better, we're pleased to announce
that later today, the first download of it
will be made available on all those
platforms for you to start using.
Now, our mission with Visual Studio is
to provide best-in-class tools for every
developer, and we now have tools
for developers who like lightweight
code-optimized editors, as well as for
those looking for a full development
enterprise IDE.
And with Visual Studio Online, as Scott
showed, we now provide a full suite of
developer services that run in the cloud
that deliver a full application lifecycle
management experience, including source
control, bug and work item tracking,
continuous integration builds,
load testing, performance, crash analytics
and a whole bunch more.
What's great is you can take advantage of
all of these services directly from any of
our Visual Studio development tools,
or you can also use them from any
other development tool, as well.
And this really enables you to build
amazing applications in this mobile-first,
cloud-first world, and we're really excited
to talk more about this in the
breakout talks and all the great features
that are coming in Visual Studio this year.
Now, Marc Andreessen wrote a famous article
a few years ago where he talked
about how software is eating the world
and about how companies will increasingly
deliver their value through online services.
Today, more than 90% of all technology companies
are now delivering or building
online SaaS services to deliver more value
and better connect with their customers.
And many of our biggest customers using
Azure today are using it to build
and deliver SaaS services to their customers.
This includes both born-in-the-cloud companies,
as well as enterprises that are
reinventing themselves by becoming
technology firms.
AccuWeather is a great example
of one of those companies.
They're one of the largest weather-forecasting
services in the world.
They're originally actually an AWS customer
and then switched to Azure to
power their weather service.
They process more than 6 billion data
requests each day through their APIs
for temperature and weather forecasts,
and they use Azure for weather prediction,
as well as to power all of their
iOS, Android and Windows Apps.
DocuSign is another great example.
They provide an electronic signature
signing SaaS service.
They've been growing at 300% year over
year for seven years now, and they now
service more than 120,000 enterprise customers,
and they're a fantastic example
of a successful startup, and their
valuation is now worth billions.
GE Healthcare is working to provide their
customers, who are doctors and hospitals,
easier ways to collect, analyze and
report healthcare data, and they've deployed
multiple SaaS applications on Azure,
while meeting the most stringent regulatory environments.
This week at Build, we're going to talk
about a number of new technologies that
we're delivering that enable you to build
great, high-scale SaaS services like these.
One of the technologies we're going to
talk about is something we call Azure
Service Fabric.
Service Fabric is a high-control
distributed computing framework.
We created it to power our own high-scale
cloud services, and we battle-hardened it
over the last several years under extreme
loads and super-demanding requirements.
It supports the ability to create
cloud services, composed of both stateless
and stateful micro services, and it has
support for hyper-scaleout deployments,
self-healing and quorum management,
as well as the orchestration of code updates.
And we're going to release the Service
Fabric SDK, make it available on both
Windows as well as Linux systems, and the
first download of that will be available
this week.
And in addition to supporting Azure, you'll
also be able to use it to build
great solutions that run in a multi-cloud
environment, and we have a great set of
talks later today that will
go into more detail on it.
Now, when you think about building great
SaaS applications, one of the things
that's sort of fundamental to building those
is to be able to do great data management.
And Azure supports a wide variety of
data storage and management solutions.
You can use pretty much every commercial
or open-source data management offering on
Azure, and Microsoft also optimizes
and delivers both relational and NoSQL data
solutions as highly available managed services
that you can basically deploy and use.
Our SQL Database offering is one
of our most popular offerings.
It's a cloud-native database as a service.
It's highly available, durable and
fault tolerant, and it enables you to store
and manage data without having to worry about
infrastructure, patching, software updates
or backups.
That's all built in as part of the service.
You can provision a SQL Database in
just seconds and run it literally anywhere
around the world, and you can set up a
SQL database to actively geo-replicate
transactions across multiple Azure
regions while you're doing that,
enabling automatic failover support within your
applications, as well as geographic scaleout.
And we've added some great new features to
SQL Databases over the last few months,
like elastic scale support, which enables
you to shard and scale out SQL Databases
to be petabytes in size, and in-memory
column support, which gives you up to 100X
performance improvements for
many core data scenarios.
And because, again, SQL Database is offered
as a managed service as opposed to
just a database inside a VM,
developers are able to host, scale and
use databases in a true cloud-native way.
In fact, up to 160,000 SQL Databases are
now created or dropped every single day
using Azure for a wide variety of
different scenarios.
What I thought I'd do is actually just
talk about and show a nice video of one of
the customers that's using SQL Database.
They actually have over 10,000 SQL Databases
running on Azure today, and this
is Esri, who is the leading provider of
geographic information services software.
So what I'd like to do is roll the video
and talk about how they're taking
advantage of it.
[Video Plays].
>> My name is Art Haddad.
I'm the Chief Technology Officer for
location analytics at Esri.
Esri has been a Microsoft Azure partner
from the very beginning days, and we've
built a true SaaS offering in ArcGIS
online using Microsoft Azure.
Esri uses Azure SQL Databases to geo-enable
business data of our users with
mapping and analytic capabilities.
There are major events out there that
take advantage to accommodate public
safety or whatever it may be, but there's
also mission-critical scenarios like
a government that needs to disseminate
public data in response to a natural disaster.
People want to know where the latest
evacuation site is, or better yet,
where to get fresh water and food.
But when they make these maps and
data available over the web, sometimes, it goes viral.
And when that happens, we have to be able
to scale on a moment's notice, and ArcGIS
is that platform from which we can do that.
Working on things that actually make
a difference in people's lives, that means something.
[End Video].
>> I'm excited to announce today a number
of great new enhancements to our SQL
Database service that you can start using immediately.
These include TDE support, which provides
the ability for you to ensure and control
encryption at rest policies within
your databases, full-text search support,
which enables you to run text queries against
your data, and a new capability I'm
particularly excited about called elastic
database pool, which enables you to better
manage lots of databases at even lower cost
and is perfect for SaaS solutions.
One of the common challenges for developers
that are building SaaS-based
applications that serve lots of B2B customers
is architecting for the right
data model.
One approach is to use a shared database,
where you have lots of customers
sharing the same tables of data.
This is good from a resource cost perspective,
but it introduces high
operational complexity into your application.
Now, another approach that many SaaS apps
use is to maintain a separate database per
B2B customer.
This provides great data isolation,
and ensures that no two companies' data
is ever stored in the same database, but in
the past, it's typically been more expensive,
since each database uses
a separate set of resources.
Today, we're really excited to introduce
our new Elastic Database Pool support,
which gives you the best of both worlds.
Elastic Database Pool allows you to
maintain completely isolated databases
for each of your B2B customers but then
allows you to aggregate all of the
resources necessary to run those resources
or databases into a common resource pool,
and this allows you to smooth out the
peaks and dips of different databases
within your SaaS app and allows you to end
up using far fewer resources to run your application.
And the end result is that it saves you
lots of money, while also improving the
overall operational complexity
of running your SaaS solution.
What I'd like to do is invite Lara on
stage to show this off in action.
>> Thank you. Hi.
We're going to walk through some great
new updates with Azure SQL Database
and SaaS developers are going to love this stuff.
As Scott just talked about, you can let
Azure dynamically manage your database
resources using an Elastic Database Pool.
And the best part is, this
could also save you money.
When you first create a pool, one of
the decisions you need to make is,
what databases should you even put in the pool?
We've removed a lot of this guesswork.
We're using machine learning behind the
scenes to produce a list of recommended
databases to go into a pool.
We're going to take that list of databases,
and we'll just add them.
We want these databases to dynamically
use a pool of resources.
So we have these visualizations that help
us properly size what that pool should
look like, based on the databases
that we've selected.
But what's also very important is that you
can specify the minimum and maximum
performance characteristics of all of your databases.
And, basically, what this means is,
any database can have a spike in performance,
but they're not going to end up being
a noisy neighbor to any of the other
databases in the pool.
Now, you don't have to worry about what
size you're going to give your
database, S0, S3, S1.
Just let Azure dynamically
figure that out for you.
You're going to have the best cost for
your company, and you get the best
application performance for your customers.
Let's go through some developer stuff.
We have this report, and this is a report
for the Fabrikam Company, and it allows
franchise owners to see how their
stores are performing.
The really cool thing about this report
is that it's aggregating live data from
all of the databases in our pool.
We had 30 databases, and it's using a
single connection string and a single query.
In a few weeks, we're going to deliver in
preview elastic database query,
and creating a report with a single connection
string against a group of databases will
be as simple as a Select *.
And finally, how do you manage updates
and changes when you're in a SaaS world?
You have tens, hundreds, thousands of databases.
How do you make updates to all of those databases?
For example, our world, we may want to
restrict the rows of data so that
each franchise owner only sees the data for the
stores that they own.
Well, Azure SQL Database delivered
row-level security some time ago.
We want to implement that, but that's going
to require a change to all of our databases.
To make any database change, any schema
change -- maybe you want to do
a maintenance update,  we'll use
the new elastic database job.
We'll take our standard T-SQL that we know
and love, and we're just going to just
submit this.
Click correctly.
Submit this as a job to our pool.
We'll call this RLS for row-level security.
So once I click run, my work is done.
I let Azure do all the rest of the work.
I don't have to write my custom script
that loops through all the databases.
I don't have to manage retry logic.
I don't have to think about how I'm going
to scale this to tens and hundreds
and thousands of databases.
Azure takes care of all of that for me.
I can use this for maintenance jobs like
rebuilding indexes.
I can use this for other standard statistics
updates or just one-time
updates, any kind of update like that.
And after this completes running, we can
see it's already almost complete against
all of our databases.
And if we just give it a second and
we refresh our report, hopefully,
Martina only sees the rows of data
for the stores that she owns.
So now you've got these fantastic new tools
that will help really build robust
SaaS applications using Azure SQL Database.
Thank you.
>> So as you can see, we're adding lots
of great enhancements to our overall data
story in terms of enabling you to
store, operationalize data, whether it's in
a single database or across thousands of them.
I want to switch gears now and talk also
now about how you can use analytics on top
of that data.
We're in a unique world right now in terms
of the expectations people have around
intelligent apps, and companies that
embrace analytics will be much more
competitive in this disrupted
economy than those who don't.
Your data, combined with analytics, enables
you to answer business-critical
questions and build much better apps.
Questions like what other products would
a customer who's already purchased something
from you want?
What's the likelihood of a customer
of yours churning?
What are the warning signs you should
watch out for before they do so?
What is the price elasticity of your
products and services and how do you
optimize for that?
Do you have sufficient product availability
for the upcoming holiday or
for a special promotion?
Being able to answer these questions accurately
and use that insight to improve
your applications can transform your business.
Now, in the past, answering questions
like this was painful.
Data warehouses took months to set up,
and integrating analytic systems was hard.
With Azure, we now provide a suite of
highly engineered analytic services that
make answering these types of questions easy.
It enables you to basically maximize the
value of each byte of data that your
application stores and processes.
Each of these services on the slide can
be provisioned in minutes, and composed
together, they provide complete, full solutions.
And today, I'm excited to announce two new
Azure services that we're launching that
complement this existing offering even further
and make it even easier to unlock
insights from data.
Our new SQL Database Service makes it easy
for anyone to set up a data warehouse
to aggregate and store data in just minutes.
You can elastically scale the SQL
Data Warehouse service to store petabytes of
data and independently scale compute to
match whatever resources you need to
process it.
Our data warehouse offering makes it easy
to interactively query and visualize all
of the data stored within it, as well as
operationalize machine learning on top of it.
And what I'd like to do is show
a quick video of it in action.
[Video Plays.]
>> Imagine, how could you make your business
more intelligent using data?
Where do the digital customers
using your services come from?
How can you engage them better
in improved customer churn?
How would discounts affect your
inventory and margins?
Imagine if you could use data to analyze
these questions and intelligently predict
outcomes, but each question could take
hours, maybe even days, requiring more
services than you have in any on-premise datacenter.
But now, you can use Azure to add unlimited
compute power to your questions.
Introducing SQL Data Warehouse.
The new SQL Data Warehouse service is easy
to create and can be launched in minutes.
It's the industry's first cloud data warehouse
that can grow or shrink to any
size in seconds and which you can use to
intelligently answer any question using data.
You can easily important data for any
data source and automate data pipelines
from Hadoop, NoSQL and SQL Databases, IoT,
as well as on-premise applications and systems.
Then, you can easily create reports against
it, as well as visualize it.
Simply connect Microsoft Power BI to a
SQL Data Warehouse in just seconds.
It also unlocks the ability to easily
use predictive analytics.
Azure machine learning can now
use petabyte-scale data with applications
written in R and Python to analyze customer
product recommendations or assess
customer churn risk.
You can expose machine learning APIs that
your apps can call to more intelligently
interact with your customers.
A data warehouse that can scale up in
seconds enables Power BI and Azure machine
learning to tap into unlimited query power,
so you can visualize and explore
unlimited scenarios.
The power to use data to build intelligent
apps has never been greater.
[End Video].
>> Using our new SQL Data Warehouse
service, you can easily stand up
and aggregate data from any source.
You can archive data from your operational
SQL or NoSQL databases.
You can also then aggregate that data
from on-premises data like an SAP
system or a Dynamics system.
You can also easily aggregate data from
a Hadoop cluster and be able to import any
type of data from that.
Now, once your data is in the data warehouse,
you can then easily visualize
and interact with it using
our new Power BI service.
This provides a rich way that you
can visualize your data and ask questions of it.
You can also run reports against it,
as well as stand up and use machine learning
to create predictive models on top of that data.
Now, one of the things that makes our
machine learning service so powerful
is that once you create a predictive model
with it, you can then expose it as an API
that your apps can then call and use,
and this basically means the more data
you get, the smarter your apps get, and it
creates a virtuous cycle that really allows
you to build some truly amazing systems.
Now, there are other data warehouse offerings
in the market today, and AWS has
seen a good uplift with its Redshift offering.
I thought I'd just spend a little bit of
time talking about how now Azure is even better.
Unlike Redshift, you can independently adjust
the amount of compute and storage
that you use with a SQL Data Warehouse.
This allows you to reduce costs and pay
only for what you actually need.
You can automatically scale up your
data warehouse in seconds.
This is a big difference versus Redshift,
where typically it takes hours or even
days to rescale your data warehouse, and
your data warehouse goes into a read-only
mode with perf degradation.
This allows you to basically increase
and decrease pretty much at will.
Redshift doesn't have the ability to pause
a cluster, and so unlike SQL Data
Warehouse, where you can pause when you no
longer need your data warehouse and pay
only for storage.
This allows you to reduce costs and pay
only for what you actually need.
A great example of that might be at the
end of the month or the end of a quarter,
when you need a data warehouse.
When you no longer need it, just turn it
off, and you're not having to pay for anything.
Our SQL Data Warehouse runs not just in
Azure but can also be deployed and run in
an on-premises environment, unlike others.
And from a compatibility and feature set
perspective, SQL Data Warehouse provides
a full SQL experience and allows you to
build super-powerful applications with ease.
So we're really excited about what
SQL Data Warehouse delivers.
We think this is really a perfect opportunity
for you to build and analyze
data in a really rich way, and it's going
to allow every developer to get more
insights from the data they have.
Now, one of the most exciting opportunities
I think for every business
out there is to use the Internet of things
to transform how they build products
and how they engage with customers, and
we have some fascinating use cases of IoT
solutions built now on Azure.
Ford is adding IoT sensors to all of
their vehicles to improve the overall car
owner experience, and they've built an
IoT back end solution on Azure to collect
and process all of this data.
And then they're connecting it with
the customer information that they already
store within apps they own inside their
own on-premises datacenters and providing
a full, complete solution.
Rockwell Automation has partnered with one
of the biggest energy super-majors out
there and is basically now running
unmanned Internet-connected gas dispensers.
Each dispenser emits real-time management
information, which they can basically then
use machine learning on top of to
detect anomalies and predict when proactive
maintenance needs to be done on the machines.
And my favorite example is probably the NFL.
Most teams in the NFL now use the X and
Os Thundercloud platform to record,
analyze and share game and player data
in near real time during the game.
This Thundercloud solution runs on Azure,
and in addition to providing real-time statistics
and analysis on plays, it also
records, encodes and uploads video that
can be used for postgame analysis.
Let's walk through some of the canonical
services that you can use in Azure to
build these types of IoT back ends.
Using the Azure Event Hub service, which
we released just last fall, you can now
ingest and process tens of millions
of IoT messages per second.
You can use the Azure Stream Analytics
service, which we made generally available
this month to perform near-real-time analytics
on top of these IoT messages.
And you can operationalize it using
a combination of Power BI to create rich
data visualization dashboards
of the stream data.
And you can optionally now store the raw
data, or more commonly a subset of that
data, inside any of these databases that
we run inside Azure, and you can now store
the raw data within our new Data Lake
service that we're making available
and announcing this week.
Now, this new Data Lake service that we're
announcing today is really a revolutionary
way to store and process data.
We've built the new Data Lake service
using more than a decade of real-world
learnings, managing exabytes of data for
our own Microsoft services.
And the Data Lake service allows you to
store literally an infinite amount of data.
You can create accounts that store exabytes
of content with individual files
that are up to a petabyte in size.
And this infinite capacity allows you
to keep data in its original form,
whether it's IoT data, log files or
any other non-relational structure.
You can then run high-throughput, low-latency
analytic jobs to analyze
and process this data at any scale.
You don't have to worry about setting up
or managing your own clusters to do this.
Instead, you can focus on the task at hand
that you want to get accomplished,
and the service will automatically scale
out for you and apply the appropriate
resources to get it done.
And the service provides built-in enterprise-grade
security support,
enabling you to securely lock down control
and access to any data that you store
within it.
And one of the great things about the Data
Lake service is that it exposes data
using the standard Hadoop HDFS API,
and this enables you to actually leverage any
analytic software already out there that
supports HDFS.
This allows you, for example, to run
standard Hadoop jobs and Hadoop workloads
on top of anything stored inside the Data Lake.
You can take advantage and write
R applications using our new Revolution R
distribution and be able to now have those
scale out and query against literally
exabytes of content.
You can also stand up and use Cloudera
as well as Hortonworks clusters to access
and run analytics stored inside
the Data Lake, as well.
This gives you maximum flexibility and enables
you to derive even more insight
from the data that you ultimately stored.
So Azure now has we think the richest
analytic capabilities of any cloud
and enables you to build intelligent apps
that are highly differentiated for your customers.
And this morning, I've talked about some
of the types of applications you can do
with that, that you can use to drive your
business, disrupt businesses or grow profits.
This technology can also be used to really
change the world in non-business ways,
as well, and one of the things I'd like to
do is invite onstage a customer of Azure,
who's doing just that, and that's JustGiving,
who basically optimized
philanthropic giving campaigns and helped
funnel money into good causes.
And what I'd like to do is invite Mike
Bugembe onstage to talk about what they do
and how they're doing it with Azure.
>> Thank you, Scott.
Great.
Good morning.
This is what I'm going to
talk to you about today.
This is what we've built on the platform.
We call it the Give Graph.
It's a set of complex algorithms that
will fundamentally change the way that you
and I interact with causes that we care about.
It's going to change the way we give.
But to give you some context, let me tell
you a little bit about our company first.
We're based in the UK, and we're the
largest social giving platform.
We enable people to raise money and
do amazing things for the causes and for the
charities that they care about.
Some people decide to do the marathon.
Obviously, recently, people were throwing
buckets of cold water on their head,
all in the name of charity.
And we've been fortunate in having around
23 million people from over 160 countries
in the world do this, and they've raised
in excess of $3b for charity and for good causes.
And this has taken us a lot closer to our
goal, which is to ensure that every great
cause gets the funding that it requires.
Now, we live in a world where we have billions
of people who have that natural
desire to give, and if everyone did that,
we would eradicate poverty.
We would put cancer out of business.
Now, our team had the task of trying
to understand why that isn't happening,
using analytics, using machine learning
and getting a real understanding as to how we
think and how we make that decision to give.
And our analytics has identified three key
things that our product needed to use data for.
The first is that it needed to change giving
from being a transactional activity
to something that's far more engaging.
It also needed to be personal, and of
course, it needed to be social.
After all, we've solved some of the
biggest problems as the human species by
connecting with each other and collaborating.
But at the heart of all of this is that
we needed to make giving personal,
which for us means that we need to understand
what you specifically care about.
traditional ways of trying to
address personalization, we would use things like
lookalikes or collaborative filtering.
But in this space, that doesn't work.
What you care about is specific to you.
If you care about cancer or beating cancer,
I can't find somebody who looks
like you and say that they also care about cancer.
Everybody has something specific
that they care about.
However, using machine learning and graph
theory on this platform, we've managed to
crack that problem.
In fact, what we've done is we've built
a machine that does three specific things.
First of all, it understands how
you specifically want to give.
See, giving isn't just about money.
It understands whether you want to give
time or whether you want to give effort.
Secondly, the algorithm can work
out specifically what you care about, and it
also understands that what you care about changes.
It's a moving data piece.
It's not static.
It changes as your circumstances change,
as your associations change and the
more interactive you become.
And lastly, my most favorite part of the
algorithm is that it understands how to
interact with you, specifically with you,
to make giving more engaging and remove
those barriers that might exist
to stop you from giving.
Now, we couldn't have done this
without the Azure platform.
We're a small team of scientists
and engineers, and what the Azure platform
really allowed us to do was focus
intensely on our goal.
We don't have a team of operations experts
who can manage a huge cluster of
Hadoop -- cloud machines in the cloud.
But this platform was ideal for us,
and these are the components that we used,
and this is how we architected them.
Essentially, we had three core processes.
We had a batch process which runs nightly,
a real-time process and a process
that allowed us to put our APIs
in front of the product.
And the batch process is the backbone for
everything that we do, and at the
center of it is HDInsight.
This is where we do all of our large calculations.
This is where we build the Give Graph
that I showed you earlier.
So essentially, we take all of our data,
we upload it into blob storage, then we
spin up the clusters and do all of our calculations.
And once that's done, the clusters are
put down and the data is moved onto Azure
table storage.
And at the same time, we have a real-time
service that helps us keep this product interactive.
It helps providing data to the machine so
that it can learn and it can continue to
become more effective.
We use F# mailboxes and Azure
Service Bus for that.
And, of course, we have Azure Websites,
or the Azure Web App, which is where we
put our APIs and where the
product has access to it.
And all of this manifests itself
on the product itself.
This is what our feed looks like.
This is what that platform is powering.
And what's exciting is that this is where
we are seeing giving move from
a transactional activity
to a more engaging one.
We're seeing people be far more interactive
and far more social,
connecting, collaborating about the causes
that they care about, the charities that
are important to them.
And as I conclude, I can't emphasize enough
how much of an impact this is going
to have.
And we're really in a fantastic position,
because this platform has allowed us to
focus exclusively on our goal, to ensure
that every great cause gets the
funding that it requires.
Thank you.
>> Thanks.
The opportunity to build applications that
can change the world has never been greater.
Each of you now has access to cloud resources
that were unimaginable just
a few years ago.
There's never been a better time to be
a developer, and I'm really looking forward
to seeing what you build.
Thank you very much
>> All right.
Well, we'll move to the next chapter of
our platform innovation, Office.
There are three core concepts in the
transformation of Office to a platform.
The first one is about the user experience.
We're opening up the Office user experience
for all of your applications in
fundamental ways, so that your applications
can show up in the context of
what a billion-plus users of Office do
in Office, create stuff, get stuff done,
collaborate, communicate.
We want you to be able to build
applications that fit naturally into those contexts.
Second, we want to go beyond single applications,
their APIs and data silos to
a semantically rich graph of data that
is available for you to be able
to consume as well as extend.
And, third, we want to have the capability
to reason over that rich graph
and add intelligence into your applications
so that not only does it
drive new features, but more importantly,
drives engagement in your applications.
So those are the three concepts
that fundamentally change Office.
We want to give you a quick tour so you
can look at what your applications can
do to exploit these capabilities.
For that, I just want to introduce
Rob Lefferts from our Office team to show you
some of this.
Hi, Rob.
>> Hi.
>> How about we get started by talking about
how we're moving from Office from us
to Office with partners
>> That's great.
Let's dive right in.
What we're looking at here is Word.
This is Office 16 Win32, and what we
see is a solution from DocuSign.
Scott was talking about them earlier.
They do digital signatures, and they've
integrated the power of their service directly
into Office using a new modern
web add-in framework.
It's built on top of HTML5
and JavaScript, and it communicates the
document through a JavaScript object model.
Let's switch gears and look at another one.
This is an add in that we're building partnering
with SAP that makes it easy for
me, while I'm building a spreadsheet, like
my product inventory information, to pull
information directly from SAP.
This is built on top of SAP Gateway for Microsoft.
And one of the great things about the new
add-in framework is that it works across
platform, so let's switch over to the browser.
And in Excel Online, I get to see the
same spreadsheet with the same great add-in
experience running in both places.
>> It's the same add on that goes
everywhere Office goes.
>> That's exactly right.
And in fact, let's take a look at Excel
for the iPad, and what we see is exactly
what you want to have, the same solution,
hosted in Excel for the iPad, showing the
same add in running for SAP, and this
will be released in upcoming months.
But let me just show you how I could
use that to connect to SAP.
I'll click connect, and it does exactly
what you want, which is connect to my
on-premise IP server, pull the content out
and deliver it directly inside of my
spreadsheet running on the iPad.
Let's talk about something very different.
Let's talk about making a presentation.
And when I'm doing this, I of course want
a constant source of high-quality,
professional photographs that I can
integrate into my slide deck.
PicHit.Me is a relatively new company
that is building just such a service
and has provided an add in here that lets me
search through the photos in the service
and paste them directly within PowerPoint.
And one of the key things about this add-in
model is that it's a roadmap for
how we're going to do add ins going forward.
So let's take a look at the newest
member of the Office family, Sway.
This is a tool for interactive storytelling
that runs great on the web
and renders beautifully mobilely, and
we've integrated a set of services that
make it easy for me to pull in content.
We've integrated with PicHit, and we will
be delivering in upcoming months -- live services.
We'll be delivering in upcoming months
the exact same framework and add-in model
that runs across all of the endpoints for Office.
That's Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
But let's take a look at people working
in Outlook, professional users handling
and managing all of their email, dealing
with a great deal of information.
They want to stay up to date on who are
all these people that we're talking to.
And what we're showing here is an add-in
from LinkedIn that makes it easy for me
to do that.
It pulls the users off the To and CC line.
It shows them to me directly in the context
of my email, so I don't have to
leave the flow of how I'm doing my work.
Salesforce has built a very similar thing
that pulls from the To and CC line but
also looks up the companies that are
showing up on the mail thread, so I get
to see the people and connect to them in
Salesforce, but I can see the accounts,
and I can drill right into the
opportunities and take action from here,
within Outlook, without leaving the flow
of my work.
>> And it's been great to be working with
the Salesforce team, because they've
really exploited all of the extensions we
have across the entire surface area
of Office, be it in Excel or in Outlook or in
other areas and built the business process
right into the collaboration
and communications infrastructure,
and that's fantastic to see.
>> Absolutely.
Outlook is not just about mail.
Outlook is also about my appointments
and my calendaring, and it has all of
that information in a structured way.
But one of the important things for me is
not just being at the meeting but getting
there on time.
We're partnering with Uber to build
a solution that does exactly this.
So here is an add in that Uber has built.
There, I can set an Uber ride reminder to
show up ahead of time and make sure
that I get to where I need to go.
As we switch over here to the iPhone,
what I actually see is that I've got
a reminder from Uber saying slide to get
a ride, so I'll go ahead and do that.
It brings up Uber, and it sets my pickup location.
The cool thing is that it got my destination,
because that lived in Outlook.
So Outlook knew where I needed to be, and
now Uber knows where I need to go.
>> No, that's great.
So that shows you how applications that
you build show up throughout Office.
They extend beyond any single application.
Now, let's talk a little bit about this graph.
How are we building the graph and
exposing the graph to developers?
>> Yes, let's actually pop it open and take
a look at exactly what it looks like.
So this week at Build, we are announcing
the preview of the unified API endpoint
for Office 365 APIs.
This builds on top of the file mail
calendar workloads that we delivered last fall.
And what it does is make it easy
for developers to get to this data in
a unified, consistent way.
So we're just popping open up a little
API Explorer tool that can show us what do
some of those request and response
patterns look like?
So what will you as a developer have to
do in order to get access to this rich data?
What you can see is that the URLs are
pretty simple, graph.microsoft.com,
version number and the tenant
that I am connecting to.
And this will make it easy for me in this
example to query Active Directory to get
a list of users.
I'm querying from users for a particular
department, in this case operations,
and what I get back is exactly what you
would expect -- clean, well-formatted,
easy-to-understand JSON.
Every developer in the room has a whole
toolkit that can parse this and use
it to build great solutions.
But the point is that this actually a graph,
and so I can go from an individual
user to drill into their files.
All I have to do to get to the files from
OneDrive for Business is stick /files on
the end of the URL, and from there, I see
data documents coming back from OneDrive.
These are just the files that the logged-in
user has permission to see.
>> And that's the powerful concept, which
is you no longer are going to different
applications for different data.
You're not going to Active Directory for
users and groups and then to OneDrive
for files, but you're able to traverse the
entirety of the graph with these APIs.
>> Exactly right.
In fact, speaking of groups, let's
pull up another example.
Office 365 has a new concept for a unified,
modern group that brings together
the people and the documents and conversations
and calendar that they're
having, and we're exposing that
through the unified API.
So I can query the Active Directory for
Groups and I can navigate through them to
find files that belong to those groups.
So here we actually see stick on a /files,
and it brings up the files associated with
that group, again, trimmed for the
logged-in user.
Now, this notion of logged-in user is
a really common pattern for people building
solutions, and so we've actually
made it super easy.
There's a me token that you can stick in
your URL to just get back the data for the
logged-in user.
>> And that's probably really important,
because everything here is permissioned
through the policies and ACLs that you put
into AD.
So in some sense, the me token gives you
access for the user using the
application's credentials.
>> Exactly right, and because now I have
access to my information, I can go
and look at my calendar.
Just /events on the end of the URL,
and that brings back appointments that are
live in my Outlook calendar, and the same
idea to get to messages -- /messages,
and boom, I'm in my inbox coming from
Exchange, and it's just that easy.
>> Awesome.
So how about we talk about the last concept,
which is how do we go from here
to really building the richness of
intelligence inside of your
applications? >> Sure.
So this is powered by the Office Graph,
and the thing about the Office Graph is
we've talked about data, we've talked
about add-ins, and we've really talked about
how we can use that to drive a whole
other set of insights.
We know who are the people,
the conversations, the meeting and
the organizations, and what we can do with
that is provide additional insights to developers.
They can use that in the preview here to
query the graph to get information out.
And in addition, we're delivering
a first-party app in the shape of Delve that
actually provides me every day with information
about what am I working on
and helps me search and discover the content
that my colleagues are using.
>> There is something funny going on?
>> I'll keep going.
>> Okay, keep going.
>> Okay.
Okay, so here I am, looking at Delve,
and what I see is exactly what you'd expect,
some cards and contact that will help me
stay up to date on what my colleagues
are doing, so I see an Excel notebook that
is coming out of OneDrive that lets me see,
here's what my boss built, here are some KPIs.
Here is an attachment that lives in email.
But we've been working with partners to
imagine what will it look like when we
have additional third-party signals coming
into the graph, how can they get
into this notification stream?
And what we see here are opportunities.
>> So that's a card from Salesforce.
>> That's exactly right.
This is a card from Salesforce showing
the amount, showing information about
who owns the account, etc.
I can navigate down.
Here's information coming from Twitter,
and beneath that, we see information
coming from Trello, so if people are
collaborating on boards, I can navigate
directly through and get to that.
And let's actually scroll down a little
bit further, and what we see is a purchase
order coming from Dynamics AX.
That looks like a super-important one, so
it was great that Delve made it easy for
me to take action on it.
>> Right.
So this is no longer now information that
is inside of the Office Graph that's based
on the data of our apps, but people are
able to extend the graph with additional
edges and nodes that's all surfacing in Delve.
>> That's exactly right.
>> Wonderful.
Thank you so much, Rob.
Thank you very much.
>> That gives you a flavor for how
Office is fundamentally changing.
In fact, there is one other SDK that we
are launching in addition to the Office
Graph, which is the web SDK for Skype, where
the presence information, where the
ability to embed inside of your applications,
video, chat and messaging,
is now possible.
So you can build a web app, a mobile app,
using Skype presence information and
Skype embedded inside of your apps.
This fundamental change that we are making
to Office -- this fundamental
platform shift of Office, where the users,
the 1 billion-plus users are available for
you as developers, the semantically rich
graph that is available for you to consume
and extend and to drive additional engagement
through intelligence we believe
is going to change the very fundamental
nature of what Office is to becoming
really a platform from us and from you together.
I know you all waited very patiently to
hear about Windows, and it's now
time to talk about Windows.
>> Windows 10, as I said, is not
just another release of Windows.
It is a new generation of Windows.
It is Windows built for this era
of more personal computing.
It's built where mobility of the experience
across devices is what
is paramount, not just the mobility of the device.
It's built such that users can interact
with a variety of devices that are going
to be powered by Windows in
the most natural of ways.
It could be touch, it could be ink, speech,
mouse and keyboard or even holograms.
It is also built with a foundation of trust.
When we talk about more personal,
it becomes even more important to know that
the data that you are giving the system
is being used to benefit the user.
Those are the foundational things that
drive more personal computing for us.
But it's just not that.
It is a very different Windows in terms
of how we deliver it, how we keep it alive.
It's a service.
We want to make sure that for every
developer here, you have the widest vibrant
user base that your applications
can target.
We also have a unified platform.
Everything from Raspberry Pi to
the holographic computer is one developer platform.
That means your skills apply across
all of the places Windows runs.
And lastly, it's one unified store.
That means the economic return for what
you do on Windows spans the entire install
base and the growing device family of Windows.
And so I'm really excited about where we
are in this journey, but I'm most excited
about what we together are going to do
in the coming year with Windows 10.
Let's roll the video.
>> Windows 10 embodies what our consumer
and our enterprise customers are demanding.
We'll be making available a free upgrade.
Cortana, we're excited to
welcome you to the PC.
Windows Insider program gives us
that connection at an earlier phase than at any
other time in the history of Windows.
>> Terry Myerson:  Hello, developers.
It is so great to be back here at
Build to talk about Windows 10.
Satya just shared that our inspiration is
for customers, for endusers to love using
Windows 10, while we also have this aspiration
for you to love developing for
Windows 10.
Our goal is to make Windows 10 the
most attractive development platform ever,
enabling you to build the most
innovative applications, applications that your
customers never before thought possible.
Integrate Cortana into your apps.
Integrate Xbox Live into your apps,
giving your customers awards
and achievements, or bring them
to life with the avatar.
Add natural user interactions to
your apps like pen or speech.
Turn your apps into holograms.
With Windows 10 we're targeting the broadest
device family ever, from devices
with small screens like phones, to large
screens, going beyond an all in one PC to
our large wall mounted displays, the Surface
hub, to devices with no screen at
all, like the Internet of Things, or HoloLens.
We're talking about one platform,
a single app, a single binary that can
run across all of these devices.
When we look at the search terms in the
store, when we compare what people
are searching for on phones, searching for on
PCs, we see that 40 percent of the
search terms are exactly the same.
Customers are looking for your apps in
all of these places.
With Apple, you choose to
invest in IoS or Mac OS.
With Google you choose to invest
in Android or Chrome OS.
Windows is the only ecosystem that lets
you bring your apps to all of these
devices efficiently.
Now, there are many ways to get apps on Windows.
Let's talk about the Windows Store.
Apps that come from the Windows Store
come with a set of promises to the
enduser, your customers.
For endusers, applications in the Windows
Store will be very easy to discover,
not only within the store itself, but Joe
Belfiore soon will show you how Windows
applications can be discovered throughout
the Windows experience.
Apps from the Windows Store will be easy
and fast to install, and uninstall if you
want, and they will never junk up your system.
Commerce with the Windows Store will
be convenience and trusted with a wide
variety of global payment entrants,
not just the credit cards we use here in the
U.S. but payment instruments like Alipay
for China, and today we're announcing
carrier billing not only for Windows
phones but for all Windows devices.
And Windows will have the largest carrier
billing footprint of any ecosystem with
connections to 90 mobile operators.
Our experience with phones, this is great
for our customers that don't have credit
cards but do have phones, and this
is great for developers because our experience
with phones is that in emerging
markets, application purchases have gone
up by a factor of eight times when carrier
billing is enabled, and now it's available
across all Windows devices.
The new Windows Store will offer new
business models and ways to monetize for
all of our Windows developers,
including subscriptions, affiliate referrals,
an updated advertising SDK with support
for video ads and install tracking.
One set of tools, one set of processes
for you to reach customers across all
of these devices and engage with the
customers all over the planet with reviews
and ratings and the other tools that are
available in the Windows Store.
And today we're introducing the
Windows Store for Business.
Businesses and schools can customize the
Windows Store, highlighting applications
from the public catalog that they want to
make more easily discoverable or recommend
to their employees or students.
And the Windows Store for Business will
support business payment methods like
purchase orders, opening up a new vein
of opportunity for Windows developers to
engage with Windows enterprises worldwide.
Now, to make all this worthwhile
for developers, we know we need to get Windows
10 to be broadly adopted quickly.
So we started by making it available as
a free upgrade for the first year and now
we're investing and making it easy
for consumers and businesses to adopt Windows
10 worldwide, and today we're sharing our goal.
Our goal is that within two to three years
of Windows 10's release, there will
be one billion devices running Windows 10.
No other platform version in any ecosystem
is available on one billion devices.
Current estimates for Google Play, KitKat
is at a little over 500 million devices.
iOS 8 is lower than that.
With Windows 10, there will be one billion
devices ready to run your applications.
Now, we've already been working with many
of you on your XAML apps, embracing this
new universal Windows platform, working
on doing things that you can't do on any
other platform.
We're delighted that companies like
Disney, Netflix, Line, Twitter, and so
many more are working with us to build
amazing applications for the one billion
devices that will run Windows 10.
Let's take a look at some of
the work by these partners.
I thought I'd start by highlighting the
work being done by USA Today, which has
been a great Windows developer and a great partner.
Today they have a separate code base for
their phone application and their PC application.
They want to bring these code bases
together so they can focus on great
quality and great functionality and then
take that application to new Windows devices.
And so here you see the USA Today's live
tile from their new universal Windows
application, on this PC, which is great
work with touch and keyboard shortcuts.
The application uses our standard
platform controls so it resizes
and reflows as the application is resized on
the desktop, snapping it, allowing me to
do more work.
Now, I can never get enough reading about
Duke's basketball team, so let's go there.
And you can see here the app, the article
flows greatly in the    flows great in
this size window.
Now, this application is also using our
platform capabilities to automatically
store state in the cloud.
So the state of me reading this article
is available on all of my Windows devices,
or other devices that might want
to access the same state.
So now when I pick up this Windows Phone,
I have the same binary running here,
the same live tile.
I run it, and the article's opening up to
the exact same place, leveraging the state
that was automatically shared to the cloud.
One binary, one code base, all working
across phone, tablet, and PC.
Now, USA Today wants to bring their application
to the Xbox, but we don't do
a lot of reading of articles on the Xbox,
so they wanted to tailor the application,
filter the application down to just video feeds.
So they invested one hour in their universal
Windows application code base,
and here it is running on the Xbox,
filtered down to just video.
I'm navigating it with the controller.
Navigate down, and I see the same video
controls that are available across the
Windows 10 platform, navigating down
further in the controller, and I get
recommended video articles.
So an investment in this one universal
Windows application, they now have phones,
tablets, PCs, interactive television all
covered with one code base and one app.
It's cool.
>> So now let's take a look at the work
Tencent's done with their WeChat application.
WeChat's an incredible phenomenon.
They just crossed 500 million monthly
active users, growing 40 percent year over year.
They have been a great application
for Windows Phone users.
Here they are on my Windows Phone.
Tencent wanted to bring WeChat
to Windows PCs and tablets.
So they made an investment in their
Silverlight application on the phone.
The team spent about approximately one month.
They now have a universal Windows app
that runs great on the phones and will also
now be available on the desktop with
some tailored experiences for the desktop.
So let's look at WeChat on the desktop.
Now, on the phone, I don't know if
you noticed, Shannon sent me a message.
I have WeChat installed on this PC,
but now we can access that new message from
the notification center.
I click on the notification
center message from WeChat.
This is the same binary running both places.
Open the message from Shannon asking me
for the file, and here they have done some
tailoring to accept drag and drop from
the desktop, all with one universal
application that's running across these devices.
So USA Today and WeChat are just a couple
of the many great apps coming to the
Windows platform.
In a few minutes Joe Belfiore will join
us and show how universal Windows apps are
going to enable you to do things you
never thought possible on a phone.
Then Alex Kipman is going to join to talk
about how universal Windows apps you never
thought possible on HoloLens.
Now, partners like these are giving us
great feedback, as they engage across all
these devices with the universal Windows platform.
Netflix loves it.
They can deploy their apps efficiently everywhere.
The team of Trivia Crack, my favorite.
It's a great game    crack    developing
this universal app is four times faster
than developing for Android and iOS.
So let me just say thank you for your
early engagement on the universal Windows
platform so we can bring your applications
to life.
So that was about new
That was all about new universal Windows
apps, but today we want to talk also about
your current code, your current apps.
Windows has always embraced a wide variety
of technologies to build great
apps, and today we're going to announce
four new ones.
Four new ways to leverage your existing
code and skills, four new ways to reduce
the cost and effort, making it easy for
you to bring applications to the Windows
Store, four new ways to delight one
billion Windows 10 customers, at home,
at school and at work.
Let's start by talking about the Web.
Now, many of you have websites that provide
great functionality to your customers.
Today I'm announcing that you can reuse
your current server hosted website code
and tools and take advantage of the rich
capabilities of the universal Windows
platform, to have your website send
notifications, to give your website a
live tile, have your website integrate with
Cortana, do in app purchases, integrate
with Xbox Live and more.
This will help your websites reach
new customers and delight Windows customers in
new ways.
Let's see this in action.
So to demonstrate this, we're going to
use a website, 22tracks, which deejays
across Europe use to exchange their tunes.
It's a very rich website, uses WebGL,
reflows to the browser resizing.
It's a great website.
What they've done is they've registered
their website with the Windows Store
and then I have installed that application
on this machine    oops, there it is
and it's going to open up as an application.
The server hosted Web code can detect
whether the code is executing inside
a browser tab or inside an application frame.
When it's inside an application frame,
it knows it can call the whole
universal Windows platform.
So now when I close the browser tab,
the website's gone.
But now that it's an app, when I close
the app, 22tracks can now send me a notification.
I click on the notification, and
I come back to their app.
Likewise, now that 22tracks is using or
can detect they are running as an app,
they can efficiently, conveniently offer
in app purchases to all their customers
for the music, leveraging the commerce
capabilities of the Windows Store.
So this is just fantastic, letting
website developers leverage all of the
server hosted code and take advantage of
the capabilities of the Windows platform
and the Windows Store.
So now the second technology I want
to announce today to enable you to bring new
applications to the Windows Store
is actually the most popular technology
within the Windows development community,
.NET and Win32.
There's overs 16 million .NET and Win32
applications being used every month in the
Windows user base, ranging from some
amazing games to some of the most
important line of business apps used worldwide.
This is a testament to the great work
being done by Windows developers.
So I'm so excited to announce that we will
be adding support for bringing your
.NET and Win32 apps into the Windows Store
and take advantage of all of the new
universal Windows platform capabilities.
To show you how this works, let's use an
app that's loved by customers worldwide,
one of the best win32 applications ever,
Adobe PhotoShop.
So here you see Adobe PhotoShop elements
in the Windows Store.
Now I shared earlier the promise Windows
makes to endusers, that applications will
be very efficiently installed, uninstalled,
and will never junk up your system.
We know that at the same time Win32 applications
can do anything to a Windows system.
So we've learned from AppV,
our enterprise application virtualization technology.
We've adopted it for the Windows Store.
So now Win32 and .NET applications come
down from the Windows Store and they run
in an isolated way from the rest of the
system so we can deliver on that promise
to endusers to deliver a great enduser experience.
And so here is PhotoShop.
You can see it is the full PhotoShop
experience with great performance.
And I'll prove that to you with the full
limits of my PhotoShop capabilities.
Helping Scott out here.
So there you go.
But all come down from the Windows Store.
And it's very exciting to share that
later this year, Adobe will be bringing
PhotoShop Elements and Premier
Elements to the Windows Store.
So the Windows Store with great support
for apps built using Web code, .NET
and Win32 code, enabling you to use
your current code bases, extend them using
Windows 10's new platform capabilities
and delight customers across the
one billion Windows 10 devices.
Now the third technology I am announcing
today will enable developers to reuse
nearly all of the Java and C++ code from
an Android phone app to create apps for
phones running Windows 10.
To make this possible, Windows Phones will
include an Android subsystem, where an app
can be written that takes advantage of the
Android code but also the extensions you
would write in the Windows platform
to really delight the Windows user.
To show you how this works, please
welcome to the stage Agnieszka.
>> Agnieszka Girling:  Thank you, Terry. Hello.
My name is Agnieszka Girling.
I'm one of the project leaders working on
the technology that will enable you to
build great Windows apps by reusing a lot
of the code you had written for Android.
Here I have an Android device.
At the moment I am running the Choice Hotels app.
Choice Hotels is the highest rated app in
its category, makes it very easy for
travellers to find a great hotel.
And I'm going to switch to Windows Phone.
On this Windows Phone, I am also running
the Choice Hotels app.
This app is reusing the code you just
saw running on the other device.
I'd like to look for hotels nearby.
The app is taking advantage of the
Windows location API to find hotels in San
Francisco, California. Okay.
Can I have a switch, device switch?
Well, let's try that again.
All right.
As I scroll through the results, you can
see that the Windows graphics and touch
just work, and the app is running smoothly.
It's running in the Windows Security
container to ensure a trustworthy
experience for Windows users.
I'd like to go back, and as I hit the
back button, please note that the app's
navigation is integrated with
the Windows navigation model.
I'd like to select a different city, so I
am going to type in Seattle, with a built
in Windows keyboard.
So I have just shown you how an app can
take, efficiently reuse its existing code
to deliver a great experience on Windows,
and in tomorrow's keynote we will show you
how you can light up your app's experience
with native Windows features such as live
tiles and with Microsoft services.
Thank you.
Terry, back to you.
>> Terry:  Thanks, Agnieszka.
>> So Windows 10's going to enable you to
reuse your Web code, your .NET and Win32
code, your Android, Java and C++ code to
build amazing new applications.
Bringing the code over, extending it,
putting it in the Windows Store
and reaching one billion Windows 10 customers.
Finally, the fourth technology to build
great new universal Windows applications
is Objective C.
So today we're announcing that you will
be able to compile the same Objective C
code that's being used in iOS applications
within Visual Studio on Windows.
Enabling you to leverage that code
and extend it with the capabilities only found
on the Windows platform.
Let's take a look.
So here in this directory we have
an iOS application Mathdream.
You can see here the X code project file
for MathDream.
You can see the nibs and xib files for
the UI.
You go into the classes directory,
you can see the .mfiles for the Objective C.
Using the toolkit we're announcing today,
we've converted the X code project file
into a Visual Studio solution.
So let's open it up here in Visual Studio.
You can see full support for this Visual
Studio project's Objective C.
Great syntax highlighting support
you'd expect from Visual Studio,
including highlighting all the
weirdness of Objective C.
We've taken this application and now we
can debug it and execute this tablet app
on Windows.
You can see that this is a relatively
sophisticated app that uses UI kit,
uses core animation, on Windows.
The performance is good, but it also
works with mouse and touch.
Can do very complex arithmetic too.
Look at that.
But actually that's the wrong answer.
So let's adjust this to the right number
of apples, and you can see not only
can it correctly do math...
But this application has been extended to
offer me an Xbox Live achievement for
doing the proper math equation.
Now, you might be wondering
if this actually works.
Will it work for a more complex app?
Now, usually when we announce this kind
of thing, we would say "Coming soon."
Well, in this case it's different.
We've been working with some great
development partners on bringing their
applications to Windows using this
technology already, and today I'm very
excited to share, but this is how King
brought Candy Crush Saga to Windows Phone.
The app has four and a half star reviews,
40,000 reviews.
King brought the app to Windows Phone with
a very fast time to market, very few
code modifications, and it's a great app,
and now King will be releasing more titles
for Windows 10 soon.
So four's not enough.
So there's actually one more thing we're
going to do to help make it easy for you
to build great Windows applications
and that is we need to get you some great hardware.
So we're going to start today by giving
everyone here a brand new HP Spectre 2 in 1.
This is a great device.
Compared to a MacBook pro, it's thinner,
it's lighter, it has longer battery life
and, of course, it has a touch display.
And I would encourage everyone here to
join the Windows Insider program,
engage with us on this platform and help shape it
for your needs, but please do the upgrade
to Windows 10 from your hotel's wi fi,
not the wi fi here at the conference.
(Laughter.)
So today we talked about our goal of
one billion Windows 10 devices, the unique
capabilities of the Windows 10 platform,
and our commitment to a broad range
of technologies to leverage your skills
and your current code to build great apps,
and we've got so much more to come.
So please welcome Joe Belfiore.
>> Joe Belfiore:  All right.
Good morning!
Hello! It's nice to be here
at Build with all of you.
So you got a chance to look at how
the universal Windows platform is going to
enable all of you and tons of other developers
to build great, compelling apps.
And what I'm here to do, as Terry said,
is to talk about how we're going to
enhance the Windows user experience so
that endusers on lots and lots of devices,
but in particular I'm going to focus on
the PC, how end users will be able to
discover and engage with all of
the apps that you and we write.
We know that great technology for building
apps is just part of the story.
You need users to engage with them.
So I want to show you some of the work
we're doing that's going to make that possible.
And then I'm going to wrap up with one
more cool demo of how the universal
Windows platform enables new devices
and new kinds of actions on devices.
So let me just jump right in and get started.
So I have here a very recent build of Windows
10 for the PC, and I'm going to
begin on the start menu.
I want to show you some of the work we've
been doing to continue to tweak the design
and improve the visuals and the interaction.
So you'll see what I've got here we think
is pretty close to what we expect to have
when we're done, although of course we're
going to continue to take feedback from
our Insiders.
You'll notice there's new beautiful live
tile animations that help draw people's
attention to the apps and the app data
for the things that they've penned.
You'll notice we've cleaned
the layout up a bit.
For those of you Insiders who kind
of surprised us with your enthusiasm for
Windows 7's Aero Glass, you'll notice the
translucency here as the blur effect that
you saw in Windows 7.
So we're trying to bring some of that
feel back.
We've got the most used apps here.
We're putting File Explorer settings
Power All apps at the bottom.
We're bringing jump lists back in, so you
can see here's File Explorer with jump
lists, and this will work
for other apps as well.
Thank you.
But the thing I want to sort of focus on
a little bit is this space right here,
where in this case I haven't installed
an app for a little while.
So the system is going to give us a smart
suggestion for an app in the store that
is going to be one that's suitable for me.
As I'm using my PC, on the client we know
which apps you're launching and which
apps you're installing and so we're able to
communicate with the store and bring down
suggestions that are personalized for you
to help users learn about great new apps
that are available for them to try out on
their PC.
And as time goes by, we reuse that space
in a smart way to help script the
user's discovery of apps first but then their
engagement later.
So if I've installed an app, as you see
here, for a little while that space
becomes the recently installed app.
The user can find the app, they can revisit
it, and if they use it enough,
it will move its way up into the most
used section automatically, and, of course,
at any time the user can drag from left to
right to take any of those apps and pen
them as full, live tiles.
So think of this as the user's lifecycle
of discovery and engagement and reuse,
which we're trying to script right into
the Start menu.
There's a whole other area that users are
engaging with where we want to bring some
beauty and new ideas for how they can get
value out of their PC experience, and that
is the lock screen.
So I want to show you some of what we're
doing on Lock to help users discover
and engage with the value in the Windows ecosystem.
So imagine you're a user and this morning
you wake up and you turn on your PC or
your tablet and you get this
beautiful Lock screen.
Well, in this case you're using our
Windows Spotlight feature, which you could
choose to use, or not, on your lock screen.
And it provides a service driven,
personalized stream of information
on your lock screen for you.
And so maybe in a week you'll wake up and
your screen looks a little different.
In this case you say to yourself, man, that
is a beautiful and striking image.
You're so enthused by it that you move
your mouse to the upper right, click on
the hotspot "like what you see," and
here's a place where you have the
opportunity to train our service on which
things are interesting to you.
In this case I find out this is
the Navajo loop switchback.
It's a cool looking trail.
I might vote that I love it and then I'll
get more images back like that.
Time goes by.
One day you see an image like this.
Now, this is because we are able, as I
said, to understand on the client what
your use of the PC is and communicate that
data to the service to give personally
relevant suggestions.
And so I want you to imagine a user who's
had Windows 10 for six weeks or eight weeks
and they haven't used Cortana yet.
They haven't tried it out.
And because they haven't tried it out,
our service is able to provide the client
with a set of options that we can display
to help users learn about, discover,
and engage with value in the Windows ecosystem.
And in this case you see the image
that's suggestive of Cortana.
There's a few more hotspots to
give you more information.
If you click in the upper left, we'll give
you a preview of what the Cortana UI
would be like, then you can click, give me
a try, then unlock your PC, will reveal
the Cortana user experience and then
you can try it out for yourself.
Keep in mind this is personalized,
and it's informed by what you do on the PC.
So if you're a power user who's been
using Cortana, you're not going to see this.
Imagine time goes by.
You get more beautiful images.
Your desktop PC or your tablet always
feels fresh with all this great stuff
and then one morning you might
see an image like this.
As a tablet user, you maybe have not tried
out all the capabilities of your
tablet to do stuff like beautiful
artwork using the pen.
And, in fact, here's an app that gives
you that kind of benefit that you haven't
used so far, and there's a few extra hot
spots to help you learn about it.
When you click in the upper left,
the fresh paint app that's in the store
is described, and at any time you could
choose to click "Get it now."  Your PC,
you'd unlock your PC, jump right into the
store and then you'd be able to
install the app and try it out.
And then a few days go by and you're back
to seeing your beautiful images.
We call this feature the Windows
Spotlight, and it's optional.
Any user can turn it on with their lock
screen and then get the value of learning
about new things in the Windows ecosystem
in a way that's tailored for you and also
get this beautiful stream of
images on your lock screen.
So that's another way that we're going to
help users find and discover value in the
Windows ecosystem.
Okay.
I want to show you yet another part of
our user experience that we've continued
to evolve with feedback from our Insiders
and which has a lot of relevance to
users discovering and engaging with apps.
That's Cortana.
So, of course, we've done
lots of demos of Cortana.
I'm not going to go through the end user
features of Cortana, but I want to show
you a couple of ways that Cortana
will assist with engagement.
I should quickly point out there's some
new UI that we have for Cortana that you
all haven't seen yet.
You'll be getting this in a flight coming
up soon.
Over here I have access to the Cortana home.
I'll fold this out so you can see
the notebook, your reminders, your favorite places.
And, of course, here is the Cortana,
the place where she gives you proactive
suggestions and information based on your interests.
You can see I follow Microsoft stock,
I follow the Mariners baseball team, I care
about sports news in general, the Seattle
Seahawks and so on.
So those are personal interests that I've
educated Cortana about, which are relevant
to me, and you'll see how this
comes up again later.
Now, one of the really high use cases for
that Cortana edit control right there
is people typing to ask questions,
get information, but also to launch apps,
and we think that's a great, relevant way to
help people discover new value as well.
So imagine I'm running Star Wars
Commander on my PC.
I've got it installed, and I run it a lot.
I might start typing in to launch the
app, and you'll notice in this case
there's a new Star Wars Rebels app in the
Star Wars app family, and we're going to
promote right up at the top this new
app that's available for you to install.
Now, I will point out, because you may be
sitting there thinking, hmmm, that's not
that much promotion.
We've done some user testing on this,
and we're going to bulk up that store app tile
to provide a little bit more information
more along the lines of what you saw in Start.
So we think this is going to be quite
a helpful way to discover new apps
that are available in the store.
Now, Terry mentioned this and Satya mentioned
the notion that we care about
natural interaction, and we want Cortana
to represent a single way for users on
Windows to interact with all kinds
of capabilities that are built throughout the ecosystem.
So we're connecting Cortana's typed
natural language and spoken natural
language deeply into your apps, and
we're doing this in two ways.
This is quite a bit farther than we did
with Windows Phone before, so I want you
to show you the range of sorts
of things that are possible.
I want you to imagine in one case I want
to bring up the app to do a task with the
app, and in the other case I simply want
Cortana to get something done for me using
the technology that's part of an app.
So here are a couple of examples.
Hey, Cortana, start a chat with
Terry Myerson on Viber.
>> Starting a chat with Terry Myerson.
>> Now, in this case I gave
a natural language query.
I said I want to start a chat, I said it
was with Terry, and I said I wanted her to
do it on Viber.
And in this case she opens up the app,
I'm in my chat context with the previous
chatting we were doing and I could keep
going with my chat.
So it's sort of a deep app launching kind
of task.
But then there's a whole class of tasks
where we want Cortana to represent being
a personal assistant that can get things
done for you even using the capabilities
that are written into the apps that are
part of the Windows ecosystem.
So I can ask Cortana to execute commands
in apps and get confirmation right on her canvas.
Hey, Cortana.
Tell Terry Myerson I'm running
really late using Viber.
>> Okay.
Message Terry Myerson on Viber.
Myerson, I'm running really late.
Sounds good?
>> Yep.  Yes.  Yep.
>> Message sent.
>> Okay.
There we go.
So you get the idea here.
Now, in this case I asked Cortana to do
something using an app, and in that case
the app UI didn't need to get displayed
and so Cortana's canvas was able to do the disambiguation.
If I want to, I could go right here and
click the link to open the app, but that's
not what I need to do.
There's Cortana helping me get stuff done.
Okay.
So I've talked about the lock screen,
the start screen, Cortana.
There's one other really big feature in
Windows 10 that has relevance to
this conversation to all of you as developers
and that is Project Spartan.
Project Spartan, Project Spartan.
You know, I have to admit our PR team has
been giving me and us a hard time because
they say it's not a great idea to keep
saying "Project Spartan" when that's not
really the name of the Web    would you
like to hear the name of the new
Web browser in Windows 10?
Okay.
Let's run the video!
Microsoft Edge is the browser built for
Windows 10, and it will be available on
the widest range of Windows 10 devices.
And for us, the name refers to the idea
of being on the edge of consuming and creating.
It refers to the developer notion of
being closest to the modern
capabilities of the Web.
And so it is a browser that end users
will think about for getting things done,
for things like note taking on the Internet,
for a great way of reading
and consuming content.
And it's a browser that has Cortana built
in, so it learns the things that you care
about and helps you get things done.
I'm not going to go show any of that stuff.
We've shown that before.
As developers there are a few reasons
that you're going to care about Microsoft Edge.
You're going to care about the blazing
fast core technology that's inside it,
and you will hear more about that in a talk tomorrow.
You're going to care that we're writing
it as a universal Windows app, proving out
the platform, and you're also going to
care because we're going to help it make
users discover and engage with
your apps and your sites.
So let me come over here and show you some
of what we're doing there, and I'm
going to come down here on the E icon on
the task bar, which now has a completely
different and better meaning than it has
for a while, and open up Microsoft Edge.
Now, the first thing that I want to show
you that's new is the New Tab page that
we're adding to Microsoft Edge.
Today in IE, the task of starting a new
tab and starting new Web browsing happens
over a billion times a day.
So this is a heavily used piece of UI,
and you'll see here how we're going to
take advantage of Cortana's presence in
the browser and understanding of you,
along with an understanding of value in
the ecosystem to give users a great way to
start their Web browsing experience
or to discover other things.
So you can see, of course, I can type
to enter a Web address or do a search.
Up here are my top sites.
And in some cases there's an app for
these sites in the store.
So we make that discoverable and available.
As I scroll down, you'll see here's
some featured apps that we're showing.
Here's a lot of new stories
that are relevant to me.
In fact, my sports favorites that you saw
in Cortana and my stock watch list in Cortana.
Those are represented right
here in the new tab page.
That's an example of Cortana helping to
compose this in a way that's useful to me.
So that's New Tab, and we've been testing
this a ton, and we're optimistic about its
opportunity to help people discover
and connect with work that you all do on the
Web and in apps.
Now, there's another big thing that we're
doing in Microsoft Edge that has huge
relevance to you and that is enabling users
to engage with your sites and give
you a shot at starting to write some Web
code, which you may put into an app via
Web extensions built into Microsoft Edge.
So I'm going to show you a couple of Web extensions.
This is HTML and JavaScript, Web extensions,
using Web standards that
people have been writing for Firefox
and Chrome for quite a while.
We've grabbed a couple of these from Chrome
with just a few minor modifications
and we're lighting them up right
here in Microsoft Edge.
So the first thing, how many
Reddit users do we have?
Yes? Come on, you must
be Reddit users.
For those of you who are Power Reddit
users, maybe some of the other browsers,
you've tried the Reddit Enhancement Suite,
which modifies the markup on Reddit to
make it easier to find images and scroll pages.
Well, we've brought that to Microsoft
Edge, as I said, with just a few changes.
So as I scroll down here, you'll see the
Web has been altered via this little paw
print here that I can use to expand,
and his little pig nose just kills me, too,
as I look at this cute image.
Is that a cat or a mouse?
I don't even know.
And as I scroll down here, you'll see the
never ending Reddit modifies the page
to continue to expand it as we go.
It was virtually no work to take this from
the Chrome extension store and run this.
This is standards based, HTML and JavaScript
just running here as part of an extension.
Now, another example which certainly
matters in terms of user engagement,
up here you'll see we've added a Pinterest
extension to the browser toolbar, and when
I click that, this is going to interact
with the markup on the page to show all of
the images that was generated on the
Reddit Enhancement Suite and now I can
find tons of things here that are incredibly
cute that I might pin to one of
the many Pinterest cute animal boards that
I, and I know all of you, keep just for
this sort of thing.
So with Project Spartan    with Microsoft
Edge and the new support for these extensions,
you'll see how we're going to
enable people to discover and engage with
code that you're propping up on the Web,
and as I said, of course you could
bring that into an app as well.
So you've seen for engagement the start
screen, the lock screen, you've seen
Cortana and Microsoft Edge all helping
people discover value in the Windows ecosystem.
But now what I'm going to do is change
gears and talk about how the Windows
platform and universal Windows apps
make devices more valuable to end users.
In general we have a vision and an idea
that the Windows platform and apps written
for it should be able to flex to different
screen sizes and different input methods
not by writing separate code but by having
a platform that's smart enough to do it;
in fact, even dynamically on the same device.
And we call this feature Continuum.
It's a promise to endusers made along
with our OEM partners that devices can flex.
So I'm going to show you some of the ways
that Continuum is evolving and I want to
show you some of the ways your apps can
light up a great Continuum experience.
I'm going to start with an 8 inch tablet.
This is a Lenovo ThinkPad.
It's running full Windows.
It's got a Intel compatible part, and the
first thing you might notice, of course
I'm going to use this in tablet mode.
So you're looking at tablet mode.
But for those of you who paid attention,
especially if you've given us feedback,
our touch start in tablet mode
we've simplified here.
We've made the live tiles bigger.
This looks very familiar to Windows 8 users.
And the extra stuff, your most used list,
your sign in, things like File Explorer,
Settings, the Power switch are all over here.
I can navigate to all apps.
All apps are shown nicely in this list.
We now have jump lists working in here in
a nice way with animation and so on.
So it's really easy for me to
navigate around my apps.
Of course, down here in the system
task switcher, I've got my task switching
button which I can use to switch
between lots of apps.
Here's Excel.
That's the Excel for Windows 10.
And what I'm going to do
here is jump into maps.
I want to do some navigation in the maps
app here and I want to show you how this
will scale to a more full PC like experience.
So here I am in my map.
I'm going to go up here, choose the
Favorites menu, and down here in this panel
on the bottom, we're first going to
navigate to New York City.
And I want to point out that the system
UI now includes a global Back button.
So I'll hit the Back button, the app navigates
back, and now we'll navigate to Tampa.
Now what I'm going to do, I want you to
and think about me using this in a very
natural, touch friendly way.
But now since it's a full PC, I'm going
to bring it back to my office and I'm just
going to dock it in here.
And when I do, I want you to notice how
the maps app experience changes to adapt.
The panel that was on the bottom when I
was in portrait mode is now on the left
side and, in fact, when I, you know,
restore this window, I've now got my
Excel, I've got my PowerPoint all here
running in a familiar way with Windows
that I can minimize and restore in PC mode.
So that's an example of Continuum really
helping me flex on a small tablet.
The next example I want to show you that's
new is here on this Surface Pro 3,
where I have a rich, complex Win32
app, this is Autodesk's Maya.
It's a high end, heavily used,
very popular 3D authoring app.
And, you know, if you notice the UI, I've
got lots of toolbars and palates.
Down here I've got the timeline, or I might
edit animation of my 3D character.
But imagine I'm an artist and so I might
use this docked with a big screen,
keyboard and mouse, I might use it like
this, but sometimes I'm going to remove
the keyboard entirely and use it like a tablet.
And in this case here's a Win32 app responding
to that change in state in the
system and adapting its UI.
And now I can use touch or I could use the
pen to be able to do things like mark
up right on the character.
Maybe I'm now going to be in this mode
where I want to take notes for people on
my team, share my thoughts on the character.
The app flexes to take advantage of the
use of the pen and touch as opposed to
mouse and keyboard, and in that case using Win32.
Now, I have one last thing I want to show.
Thank you.
I have one last thing I want to show.
So far we've shown this Continuum feature
working with our shell and with apps on
the PC and watching the PC device flex
across these form factors, but we have
a vision that not only the PC can benefit
from flexibility and use of input devices
and screen sizes, so too can the phone.
And so today we're excited to show for
the first time Continuum for phones built
into Windows 10.
So let me give you a look at how that works.
So over here I have a    now, I should point
out we need new hardware for this,
and I don't have that hardware working today.
In fact, we're going to try a demo of
that at a session on Thursday.
So you're seeing a simulation.
What I'm going to do is connect my phone
and, let's see, get this going.
Once I connect my phone, I
want you to think of this.
I've got a Bluetooth keyboard, a Bluetooth
mouse and a screen, just
a screen that I'm connecting via HDMI, okay?
So because this phone software has all
the core componentry that's highly shared
between the PC, things like Bluetooth,
keyboard and mice, they're supported.
And you might notice    I'm not
sure if the shot shows this.
But at the top of my phone screen now,
it says, tap for mouse and keyboard controller.
I could tap that and then get essentially
a mouse pad on my phone, but I don't need
to do that because I have a full
Bluetooth mouse and keyboard.
Up here on the monitor you'll notice
this looks very familiar.
It's the same start menu with tiles I had
on my phone now displayed like a Start
menu, and I'm going to start running apps
to give you a sense of how well the phone
experience transforms through Continuum
to give you a very PC like experience.
First I'll launch PowerPoint.
This is the version of PowerPoint that
comes with the phone, and what you see on
the big screen here sure looks like the
version of PowerPoint that you would see
on a PC because, in fact, it is the same
code as the version of PowerPoint that you
would download from a store and see on a PC.
I can do things like use my mouse and
keyboard to create a new slide.
I'm going to go up here, use the ribbon
to insert pictures.
Remember, this is my phone.
So as I'm inserting the photos,
I bring up my photos.
This is the camera roll of my phone
and the photos that I've synced from OneDrive.
I'll choose an appropriate desert picture
from a trip I've made to Utah and I'll
insert that into my PowerPoint
presentation in a completely natural
and familiar way using the keyboard and the mouse.
Let's look at some other examples.
I'm going to click here to go into mail,
and the Outlook mail client that comes
with Windows 10 PCs and comes with phones
is now viewed, and it looks completely familiar.
Here's my mail folders.
I can choose a message in my inbox, and
over here I'll click the Reply button
where I have the full power of the Word
engine embedded right in Outlook for doing
replies, and there's the familiar ribbon.
You can see here Ann is asking me to
update the latest expense report.
Eric's going to give me the December expenses.
So I'm going to switch over here to Excel,
where we're doing our expense
reporting, and you'll see here's Excel,
the universal Windows app Excel running on
the phone but looking the same as it would
on the PC.
I'll choose my expense reporting app,
and look at this.
My phone just buzzed.
I got a text from Eric right there.
I'm going to click to navigate on my
phone screen separately to my text app.
I'll press and hold to get the context
menu, and I'll choose copy because I'm
going to copy from that text right
here to my December cell.
And, of course, my brain is wired to know
the keyboard shortcuts for all these apps.
So I will hit Ctrl V to paste.
I'll use my task switcher to come back to
the Outlook email client, and I can do
a quick reply and send.
Thank you.
Now, think about this.
With Continuum for phones, we believe
any screen can be your PC.
Imagine that your company has a touchdown
space where anyone could connect their
tablet or their phone to keyboards, mice
and screens and then use their apps with
their data and the full power
of a keyboard and mouse.
Or imagine you're on vacation and your
hotel room can become a theater, or you
connect your phone to the screen or you
let your kids watch a movie while you use
the second screen to catch up on your email.
Imagine the effect this can have on mobile
first countries, where individuals
could be as productive with the phone that
they are buying if they can't buy a full PC.
So what we're trying to show here today
with Continuum is our unique vision for
phones and enabling them to scale
up to a full PC like experience.
And what we have so far is just the first
step because it requires all of you
writing these universal Windows apps, whose
UI can scale and adjust to different
form factors, input types and screen sizes.
As I said, this capability will require
new devices that can drive dual screen,
and you'll hear more about them later.
So that is my quick look at how we're going
to help all of you and our endusers
discover value in the Windows ecosystem,
on the lock screen, on the start screen,
with Cortana, with Microsoft Edge, and how
we're going to enable great new devices
with Continuum.
And I'm now excited to introduce to the
stage Alex Kipman, who's going to tell you
even more about some great new devices.
Thanks a lot.
>> Alex Kipman:  Thank you, Joe,
and good morning, everyone.
Now, Joe just showed you how to do incredible
things with Windows, from the
little screen to the big screen.
Now, I get the pleasure to show you how
to do incredible things with Windows on no
screens at all, with the same familiar
tools and skills you already have.
It's surreal being here today, less than
100 days since we mixed holograms with our world.
Less than 100 days ago, we showed you
how Windows Holographic amplifies what
is human about each of us.
Humans live in the real world, and we should
not be confined to the virtual or
just the digital.
We experience life in three dimensions.
We move, we see, and we hear in three dimensions.
Our dreams, fantastical or entrepreneurial,
start in the real world.
Windows Holographic embraces this notion
of experiencing life in three dimensions
by mixing digital content right into
your world, right into your life with more
reality than ever before.
Now, the truth of the matter is people,
not devices, are mobile, and we are ready
for technology to move beyond devices,
to move beyond screens and pixels and to
move beyond today's digital borders.
Now in January we showed you glimmers of
this holographic landscape, glimmers of
this more natural way of interacting with
digital content.
We introduced Microsoft HoloLens,
the world's first and only fully untethered
holographic computer.
And I have to admit we have been humbled
by the outpouring of enthusiasm spanning
from consumers to businesses, and the
response we receive from developers like
yourselves has been remarkable.
On behalf of the entire Microsoft
team, thank you.
We share your enthusiasm, and today we
take the next step in unveiling the
Windows Holographic platform.
Focus on you, the dreamers, the creators,
the Windows developers.
So let's get started by taking a tour of
Windows Holographic, and to help us with
that, please help me welcome on stage one
of the creative minds behind holograms, Darren.
Hi, Darren.
>> Darren:  Hello, Alex.
>> Alex:  Now, before we start, let
me explain the setup a little bit.
Darren is wearing a HoloLens, and he sees
this globe we showed you in January right
in his world.
Now we also have this custom camera rig
over here so that you can see the
holograms up on these screens as if
the camera is wearing a HoloLens.
Now when we introduced Windows Holographic,
the globe was just a slide.
Today Darren is experiencing it
as a universal Windows app.
And guess what? It's running
on Windows 10.
Welcome to Windows Holographic.
>> Alex:  This is life with holograms,
and as you can see, Darren has customized his space.
Instead of digging through menus,
everything is right where he wants it.
>> Darren:  Yeah, whether it's Microsoft
Edge, photos or video apps, these are
simply universal Windows apps
that we placed as holograms.
So whether it's a slate on the wall or
something a little bit more dimensional
like my loyal companion Fang here    hey,
buddy    you can customize your space the
way you want it.
Now I want to add something to my space.
So I'm going to pull up my holographic
start menu, and I'm going to open up Skype.
I'm the worst at keeping in touch.
So I'm going to take the people that
matter most to me, and I'm going to pin
them to this wall right here, that way
every time I walk into this room, I'll
see their smiling faces and be inspired to
reach out to them.
>> Alex:  We're all creatures of habit,
and we do different things in different
spaces in our homes.
This stage, as an example, is modeled
after Darren's apartment.
>> Darren:  Yeah, and this is where I'd
hang out in my apartment and surround
myself with the applications that I
want to access or just check out.
For example, I'm planning a trip
to Hawaii in a couple of weeks.
So I placed this awesome weather app over
here so when I'm moving around, I can
easily glance at it, reference it
and understand what the weather's going to be
like when I get there, hopefully still hot.
Then if I look up here on the wall to
my left, I've got a video player.
I simply reach out, air tap, and I'm
right in the action.
>> Now, what if Darren has things
to do around the house?
He shouldn't be confined to
watching just on one wall.
He should be able to take his entertainment
with him anywhere and remain
hands free as he does it.
>> Darren:  Yeah.
So all I need to say is follow me.
Now wherever I go in my house,
my entertainment tags along.
All right.
And when I get to where I'm going, I simply
place it, and I can scale it as big
as I want.
Now, that's not something
just a video player does.
Every single universal Windows
app has the same capabilities.
For example, I placed the calendar over
here because as Alex will tell you,
I'm late for pretty much every meeting.
So this makes it, a guy like me, it makes
a lot easier for me to just check in
and see what I've got coming up next.
We're discovering uses for
holograms every day.
We know with all you here at Build putting
your minds towards it, we're going
to be discovering new uses every second.
I hope you have an inspiring time at Build.
We'll see you out there.
>> Thank you, Darren.
As you just saw, holographic computing can
seamlessly connect the digital world with
real life.
This mixed reality grants us permission
to reinvent productivity by creating experiences
not possible in any other
device or any other platform.
Back in January we asked you to imagine
an architect walking around their designs
while clients reviewed them remotely.
Now, the construction industry is
a multibillion dollar industry, yet many of
their processes have remained unchanged.
Over the past few months we have had
the great honor to partner with an
organization that has been transforming
the construction industry for over 60 years.
So let's take a sneak peek at how
holographic computing, enabled by Windows
10, is fundamentally changing how they
think about architecture, construction,
and collaboration.
>> Architects are dealing with shapes
and spaces and light and they dream in 3D.
And then you need to translate this
design into a set of 2D documents.
HoloLens represents a complete new paradigm.
Trimble provides design solutions
for architects and structural engineers.
>> Anything that involves getting
dirty is our business.
Literally hundreds of enterprises
can be represented on a job site.
Today the best way those companies have
to interact with each other is paper,
paper drawings.
But people aren't good at visualizing 3 D.
>> Microsoft HoloLens is a hood mounted,
self contained computer that lets you see
holograms in the real world.
You have the physical model as a focus point
for the team to collaborate around,
and you get a hologram with the flexibility
to run quick iterations.
>> You'll see how we brought in the
courtyard that you suggested.
You see that mouse go off the screen and
into holographic space, and you're then
interacting with the hologram, with the mouse.
>> The thing that we can do for architects
is really give them much higher confidence
around decisionmaking.
One way we can do that is we can allow them
to literally immerse themselves in
the scene of that building and see the
street side, how the building's going to look.
>> Visualizing design data in the context
of a real environment is a much better way
to make sure that the design is
implemented correctly on site.
>> Microsoft HoloLens allows you
to collaborate with somebody regardless of
distance, like they were there.
>> Hello there.
>> Hey, Igor, where they are trying to fit
this door, there's a beam behind here.
>> I'm looking at this beam.
We're interacting with that.
A problem that we can see and being able
to solve that problem with all the data
that we need in front of us in realtime.
>> When I'm talking about enterprise
construction, I always compare it to
people trying to make music together.
Each one of them is contributing to the
harmony, but they all should be completely synched.
>> My gray hair says I've been doing this
for a while, I've seen a lot of these
things come and go, and I expect in five
years we'll all be interacting with the
world with this kind of technology.
>> Holograms are already being sculpted by
some of the most innovative people around.
Now with this ability to design and shape
holograms, you have a new medium to express
your creativity, to visualize your
work and share ideas.
Your digital creations become so much
more relevant when they come to life in
the real world.
But that's just the beginning
of what holograms can enable.
Windows Holographic also provides you
with a unique opportunity to change how
you teach and learn in more effective ways.
On January 21st, we asked you to imagine
a surgeon learning a procedure without
picking up the scalpel.
Since then we have partnered with
an institution, accustomed to thinking beyond
the possible.
And to show us what they have been up to,
please help me welcome on stage Professor
Mark Griswold from Case Western Reserve
University and our team member Michelle.
Hi, Mark.
>> Professor Griswold:  Hey, Alex.
>> Hi, Michelle.
>> Good morning.
>> Now, Mark is part of a team from
Case Western and the Cleveland Clinic.
We invited them to use Windows Holographic
to advance medical education
beyond what is possible with
today's state of the art.
Take it away.
>> Professor Griswold:  Thanks, Alex.
Today we use a combination of cadavers
and medical illustrations to teach
students anatomy.
This is a curriculum that hasn't drastically
changed in over 100 years
because there simply hasn't been another way.
The mixed reality of the HoloLens has the
potential to revolutionize this education
by bringing 3 D content into the real world.
Now, one of the biggest challenges
for students learning anatomy is understanding
the body in three dimensions and how all
the different systems fit together.
Using holograms, we can easily separate
and focus in on individual systems.
For example, we can focus in on the
femur, and students can immediately see
some of the types of fractures they may
one day encounter in the clinic.
Now I can leverage all of these
new capabilities while maintaining the
important connection with my students.
When we're both wearing a HoloLens, I can
see what they are looking at, what they
are interacting with, I can assess their
progress, and they can communicate with me
and each other naturally.
For example, I can see if Michelle has
a question in class, or whether Gwen has
a question while learning remotely.
Now, obviously a cadaver doesn't move.
This makes it difficult to see the
way a living body actually works.
HoloLens doesn't have this limitation.
Systems can be animated to easily
see how things function.
Let's take a look at the center of
the cardiovascular system, the heart.
It's an amazing organ.
In reality it's about the size of your fist.
With HoloLens, we can easily scale up the
heart to let students see minute details.
We can even see inside the heart
to see the valves in action.
This is a new way of seeing things, and
it has the potential to help students
understand the structure and physiology of
the body in a way that's just not possible today.
Now, what you've just seen is a vision of
how HoloLens could enhance one single
subject, but as an educator it's easy for
me to see that it's not just anatomy that
could benefit from this technology.
This could change how everyone learns.
Imagine for a moment some of the other
fields that could be changed.
For example, chemistry and genetics. Art.
Engineering.
And paleontology.
And the best part is we get to help
define that future together.
I can't wait to see what you future
holographic developers are going to do
with this amazing technology.
Thanks.
>> Thank you, Mark.  Thank you, Michelle.
And thank you to our friends at Case
Western and the Cleveland Clinic.
From NASA, JPL, to Trimble, to Case Western,
these are just a few of the
amazing partners we are actively collaborating
with to transform different
industries, now that holograms have
become part of our everyday life.
Now I feel very fortunate to
be in this moment in time.
All the different pieces are
starting to fall into place.
As we enter this decade, the amount
of processing power you can get into a small
form factor, for a reasonable price point,
is just staggering.
Even in the last few years, as we
developed HoloLens, the innovation in
optics, sensors and silicon has allowed us
to move forward a few orders of magnitude.
Now, people used to say computers
today can do enough.
"My apps run just fine.
The Internet runs just fine.
What are we going to do with all of this
extra computing power?"   And the answer
to that is that we are going to put
a different emphasis on it, new workloads,
focus on solving brand new problems.
In other words, we are going to start using
all of this power specifically to
help us understand humans
and the world around us.
So how do you do this?
With no wires, with no markers,
no external cameras, with no phones
and no connection to a PC required?
Let's learn a little bit more about this
amazing magical device that is Microsoft HoloLens.
>> The hardware allows us to take these
visions, these ideas about these new
products, and make it all real.
>> Imagine a computer that allows you to
put your images anywhere, and you can
interact with things as a combination
of the real world and holograms.
>> You have a bunch of different systems
that need to come together in one big symphony.
>> Every time you think you understand
it, it's like peeling an onion.
There's suddenly another layer of things
that you suddenly realize, of course,
we have to figure that out now.
>> We don't have room for error, we don't
have room for drift, we don't have room
for those normal things that happen in a device.
>> So it's working with these people
across the world and bringing it all
together into this brand new product.
>> We envisioned an all in one device that
is untethered, with built in batteries,
hands free, and floating audio.
>> You have to come up with holographic
processing unit because you're constantly
producing data every single millisecond.
>> Visor lens, so complex.
While it looks very simple and pure,
it needs to accommodate so many requirements
to see progressive content.
>> The audio components need to take in
all of that information about, "where
is my head, where am I looking," so that your
brain knows that there's something real
over there.
>> The enclosure wraps around a user's head
to provide great weight distribution.
>> We have so many sensors on this product.
To read all those in realtime and to do
that in a very power efficient way
requires the power of what they develop
with a new version of Windows.
>> We need to get the hardware just right
so that we can sort of unleash that
creativity in the world.
>> I think we have great ideas.
I think when we get it out to developers,
we're going to get hundreds of great ideas.
>> And that's what Build conference
is all about, right?
We want to get it out to people, show them,
hey, this is real and this actually works.
Now let's see what you can do with it.
>> With Windows 10, holograms are universal
Windows apps, and all universal
Windows apps can be made to work
on Windows Holographic.
Everything you have seen here today is
a universal Windows app.
Developers, this opens up a new vein of
innovation and a new vein of opportunity.
With holograms, you have a new canvas to
express your creativity.
Your apps can come to life, and they can
be experienced naturally in the world
around you.
But seeing is believing.
So let's take a look at how portability
of experiences, enabled by Windows 10,
can change the way makers like you interact
with the physical things that you build.
And to show us mixing holograms with IoT,
please help me welcome on stage
my very good friend Miko.
>> Miko:  Hey, Alex.
>> Hi, Miko.
>> Miko:  I'd like you to meet B15.
This year millions of people will use maker
kits like this one to enter robot
competitions and learn about electronics.
Many of them will use Raspberry Pi 2
which now supports Windows 10 IoT core.
We were inspired to see what we could do
with the same hardware and HoloLens.
So let me show you.
B15, wake up.
Say hello to the real B15.
Because every Windows 10 device has APIs
for human and environment understanding,
we were able to overlay a holographic
robot on top of a physical one.
And one thing we noticed while working is
you need your data to be easily accessible.
But adding displays to this frame increases
your costs, and there's no way
to see all that information at once.
So let me show you how we check on our data.
B15, control panel.
This spatial UI system is
a universal Windows app.
I'm pulling the data from B15, making it
as big as I need it to be and placing it
where it's relevant in my world.
>> And I love it that Miko didn't have
to actually go back to her desk to do it.
This is a great example of how Windows 10
makes your digital life more powerful by
connecting it with your real life.
>> That's right.
You can waste a lot of time tweaking
variables on another device before you test.
But if all I need to do is something simple
like change LED color, I can use
a control scheme like this.
So that's how we envision controls
and displays evolving with holograms.
>> Now, so many industrial robots need to
find paths safely through their work spaces.
Let's take a look at how Miko can help
B15 navigate and how holograms can help.
>> So B15's sensors aren't great at
detecting obstacles, but the cool thing
is they don't have to be.
My HoloLens can communicate that information.
B15, pathfinding mode.
>> Now, with Windows Holographic,
we can scan an environment.
We can queue up movement tasks and
visualize the robot's path.
>> So all I have to do is air tap the ground.
My HoloLens interprets the 3 D points
and tells B15 when to turn and when to move forward.
>> Now, this is a great example of
how portable our Windows experiences can be.
B15 didn't have to know its environment.
The room understanding comes from Windows Holographic.
But what happens when the environment
actually changes?
>> That's no problem.
Because I'm wearing HoloLens, I'm always
aware of B15.
I can see it updated its
route to go around you.
And this is critical if you are working
with bigger robots like those in
automotive manufacturing.
You need to always be aware of a robot's intentions.
HoloLens helps developers to understand
robots better at any scale or
in any scenario.
>> This is just amazing.
Thank you so much, Miko.
And nice to meet you, B15.
>> B15, say goodbye.
See you later, Alex.
>> Later, guys.
Now, at some point in time, you get
this feeling you could actually be creating
something meaningful.
But that feeling is materially different,
from seeing architects excited about it,
from seeing doctors and professors excited
about it, for seeing developers like you
excited about it.
People outside of Microsoft will
start understanding the tools, will start
understanding what they have in front of
them, who start painting with this brand
new palate and these brand new paint brushes.
It's humbling, and it's exciting
at the same time.
It is in that spirit that we have brought
hundreds of HoloLens devices just like the
ones you saw on stage today, all running
on Windows 10 so that you here at Build
can experience holograms for yourselves
over the next few days.
>> From holographic presentations
featuring Skype, to one on one demos like
the Trimble experience I showed you
earlier today, and my personal favorite,
our very own Holographic Academy where you'll
be able to build your very first
holographic experience from scratch.
We have a lot to share with you
this week here at Build.
Now, registration for all of this
begins after the keynote.
Space is limited.
So make sure you sign up for all of these
activities by going to the Web or simply
by using the Build app.
The Holographic journey starts with you,
the Windows developers.
And it starts right here, and it starts
right now.
And with that, I want to thank you
and let's welcome Satya back on stage.
Thank you.
>> Satya Nadella:  Thank you, Alex.
That's just magical stuff.
Hopefully you get the essence of our
ambition with Windows 10 when we say we
want to move the users of Windows to move
from needing Windows, to choosing
Windows, to loving Windows.
At the core of our company
is empowerment, empowering us all.
It's our mission to empower every person
and every organization on the planet to
achieve more, and it starts by empowering
every one of you, every developer on the planet.
Thank you so very much for being here today
and for being at this conference.
I thought we will end today's morning keynote
by playing the music that David
composed for us this morning.
Thank you and have a great rest of Build.
Thank you very, very much.